

PLAYER'S HANDBOOK

















CREDITS
Lead Designer: Jeremy Crawford
Cortesy: Black Owl, Atarlond, CC



Noor Rahman, Chris Rallis. Joshua Raphael, Aaron J. Riley,
Designers: Christopher Perkins, Ben Petrisor, F. Wesley Sdlneider, Ray Winninger, James Wyatt
Rules Developers: Jeremy Crawford (lead). Makcnz1c De Armas, Ben Petrisor
Editors: Janica Carter (lead), Judy Bauer, Adrian Ng.
F. Wesley Schneid r
Playtest Analysts: Ron Lundeen (lttad), Dan Dillon. Ben Petrisor, Patrick Renie
Art Directors: Emi Tanji (lead). Josh Herm,m
Crtphlc Designers: Matt Cole (lead), Trystan Falcone, Trish Yochum Cover Ulustra.tors: Wylie B«kcrt, Tyler Jacobson. Simen Meyer lnte:l'ior Illustrators: Rob Alexander, David Astruga. Helge C.
8al.:er, Luca Bar,cone, E.ric Belisle, Olivier Bemard, Zoltan Soros, Michael Broussard, Ignatius Budi. Omitry Burmak, tkaterina Burmak, Pedro Cardoso, Kai Carpenter, Clint Cearley, Javier Charro, Jedd Chevrier, Billy Christiar,, Tuan Duong Chu, Cor,ceptopolis. CoupleOfl<ooks, Justine Cruz, Daarken, Nikki Dawes, Jonas De Ro, Yuhong Dir,g, Aldo Dominguez, Olga Drebas, Tomas Duchek, Jesper Ejsing. Wayne England, Martina Fackova, Aurore Foiny, Evyn Fong, Jessica Fong, Gaboleps, Caroline Cariba, Michele Giorgi, Igor Crechanyi, John Crello, Leesha Hanmgan, Patrik Hell, Nathaniel H1mawan, Ale?andre Honor,. Ralph Horsley, Jane Katsubo, Jonathan Kuo, Katerina Lado11, N,stor O sand6n Leal, Unda lithen, Titus Lunter, Erel
Maatita, Randall Mackey, Erion Makuo, Antonio Jos? Manzanedo, Andrew Mar, Ral1.1ca Marinescu, Marcel Medeiros. Julia Mettger, Alexander Mokhov, Calo Monteiro, Calder Moore. Riccardo Moscatello, Martin Mottet, Jodie Muir, David Auden Nash, Irina Nordsol, Hfnchel Or, Hector Ortiz, Alejandro Pacheco, Mike Pape, Borja Pindado. Andre;i Plparo. Pol r Engine, April Prime,

ON THE COVER
Guided by a gold dragon, the elf queen Yolande and the heroes of Valor's Call test their bravery against evil in this daring scene illustr led by Tyler Jacobson.
Denman Roolre, Hocheol Ryu, Fabi Sans, Chris Seaman, Alditha Siregar, Bryan Sola, Craig J Spearing, Justin Sweet, KamUa Szutenberg, Wls11u Tan, Brian Valeza, Randy Vargas, Adam
Vehige, Magali Ville11euve, Kenny Vo, La1.1ren Walsh. Joseph Weston, Campbell White, Richard Whitters, Danee11 Wilkerson, Zuzanna Wuzyk, Uxin Yin
Concept Art Director; Josh Herman
Concept Artists: Even Amundsen, C rlo Arellano, Michael Broussard, John Crello, Tyler Jacob$0n, 98 Collective, Noor Rahman
Co11sultants: Sarah Benjamin, Basheer Ghouse, Kayleigh Jones, James Mendez, Brian Powers. Pam Punzalan, Jason Schklar
Additional Consul?ion: Kyle Brink, Aaron Forsythe, Mark Heggen, J y Jani, Chris Mooney, James Rose, Carl Sibley, Kale Stutzman
Producers: Dan Tovar (lead), Bill Benham, Siera Br1.1ggeman, Rob rt Hawkey
Print Operations Engin rs: Basil Hale, Scott West
Imaging Tedmicians: Daniel Coron.i, Meagan Kenreck, Kevin Yee
Prepress Spec,ialist: Jefferson Dunlap
Includes revised content from
Xonothor's Gulde to Everything (2017) and Tasha's Cauldron of Evcrythrng (2020)
Based on the Player's Handbook (2014) designed by
Jeremy Crawford (lead), Bruce R. Cordell, Tom LaPille, Peter Lee, Mike Mearls. Robert J. Schwalb, Rodney Thompson, James Wyatt
Building on the original game created by
Cary Gygax and Dave Arneson and then developed by m ny others over tile past SO years

ON THE ALT·COVER
Noth,ng's better lhan sharing stories with friends. Heroes pause to share tea and tales with a gold dragon In this serene illustration fr-om Wylie Becf(ert.

62003709002001 EN ISBN: 978-0-7869-69S1,7
First Printing: September 202? 987654321
OUNCŁONS & ORACOJIIS, 0&.0. Wiurd1 of1 Co .i, thtdr gon ampe.rund, Ou Sun Ora 01111t1«1, Eb ,ron, fo•1o"•n Rulm1, Gr  1  , Pl ncsupc, A,rv nlof1, Sp,cllj1mm?r, Pl•yo,·1 H•sdlio() Mo?tftfM011uar, Ousieot1 Mo11C1'1c-,d,, Cum o/Suoltd, al o,t,., w,urds oft Co <t prod""'"'"*'•I?• r •••p,cctlvt loeo,, iu,d The Wo,ld'1G,c,i1n1 Ro/4,• pl.rylna G1mt arc "•d•m11 s ofW1urd1of,?. co.. 1 ,n 1hr USA •nd other eoun1t••• All char1c1tr1 and 1hc,1t dln1nu1w I ktcnesns ,,., p,opcny ofW<rards or	Cont This m11trtJ1I
Is protc<te4 unc,l •? toj>Yrtaftl laws of th• United States of Amerio, Anr reprodl1<t>0n or un1u1horotcd "'°of tht m 1e,la o, IHW011c «M1t1ir1tcl he<• n Is proM.. u,d thoul 1 • N·
prrss wr1Hon pormiHlon ofW,ur1h o the Cout.

Pr ntt<I In 8rl91 m. c,202, w,urd1of1? Cout LLC, PO Bo, 707, Renton. WA 9&0S7-0707, USA, M nuf1c1urtd b1, H sbro SA. A..- EmU?-8Hth•t 31, 2-'00 0.-llmo"I CH
R?prHc,, cd by: tt,>?IP Qa hr,.,, 2,W J]O] EE M111mbrn NL 1-4.ub,o UK Lui.. PO Bo •l  ewport, NP19?YH, UK.
Jou c" ••.i11o CONTENU· 11 ro, lmpqrtt au C•n1d• ?• Wmrds ohh.? Co.. t lLC, PO Bo 707, Rcn1<>•, WA 9IOS7.0701, USA. FA8RJQUE AUX BElCIUM,
CONTENTS
Welcome to Adventure	4
What You Need	4
UsingThis Book	5
Worlds of Adventure	5
Ch. I: Playing the Game	6
Player or DM?	7
Rhythm of Play	8
An Ongoing Game······---	8
Dice..................•..•.----·······..	9
TheSix Abilities	10
020 Tests	10
Ability Checks	10
SavingThrows	11
Attack Rolls	12
Advantage/Disadvantage	12
Proficiency	13
Actions.................................·--	15
Bonus Actions	15
Reaction...	15
Social lnteraction	16
Exploration	19
Vision and Light	19
Hiding	19
Interacting with Objects	19
Hazards	20
Travel	20
Combat	23
The Order of Combat	23
Movement and Position	24
Making an Attack	25
Ranged Attacks	26
Melee Attacks	26
Mounted Combat	26
Underwater Combat	27
Damage and Healing	27
Hit Points	27
Damage Rolls	27
Critical Hits	27
Saving Throws and Damage	28
Damage1ypes	28
Resistance and Vulnerability	28
lmmunity	28
Healing	28
Dropping to O Hit Points	28
Temporary Hit Points	29
Conditions	29
Ch. 2:Creatinga Character	32
Create YourCharacter	33
Level Advancement	41
Starting at Higher Levels	43
Multiclassing	44
Trinkets	46
Ch.3: Character Classes	48
Barbarian	50
Path of the Berserker	54
Path of the Wild Heart	55
Path of the World Tree	56
Path of the Zealot	57
Bard	58
Bard Spell List	62
College of Glamour.............	55
College of Lore	66
College of Valor	67
Cleric	68
ClericSpell List	71
Life Domain	73
Light Domain	74
Trickery Domain	75
War Domain	76
Druid	78
Druid Spell List	82
Circleof the Land	84
Circle of the Moon...............	36
Circle of theSea	87
Circle of theStars	88
Fighter	90
Battle Master	93
Champion	96
Eldritch Knight	96
Psi Warrior	98
Monk	100
Warrior of Mercy	104
Warrior of Shadow	105
Warrior of the Elements	106
Warrior of the Open Hand	107
Paladin	108
Paladin Spell List.........·--	112
Oath of Devotion	113
Oath of Glory	114
Oath of the Ancients	115
Oath of Vengeance	116
Ranger	118
Ranger Spell List	l2 I
Beast Master...	122
Fey Wanderer	124
GloomStalker	125
Hunter	127
Rogue	128
Arcane1·rickster	132
Assassin....................	134
Soulknife	135
Thief	137
Sorcerer	138
Meta magic Options	141
Sorcerer Spell List	142
Aberrant Sorcery	145
Clock,eork Sorcery	146
Draconic Sorcery	148
Wild Magic Sorcery	149
War·lock	152
Eldritch Invocation Options	155
Warlock Spell List	157
Archfey Patron	159
Celestial Patron	160
Fiend Patron......	161
Great Old One Patron	162
Wizard	164
Wizard Spell List	168
Abjurer	172
Diviner	173
Evoker	174
Cb.4: Character Origins	176
Origin Components.............	177
Background Descriptions	177
Acolyte	178
Artisan	178
Charlatan	179
Criminal	179
Entertainer	180
Farmer	180
Guard	181
Guide······---·······..·······	181
Hermit............	J82
Merchant	182
Noble	183
Sage	183
Sailor	,184
Scribe.,	184
Soldier	185
Wayfarer	185
Species Descriptions	186
Aasimar	186
Dragonborn	187
Dwarf...·-----···.·.·····	188
Elf	189
Gnome	191
Goliath	192
Halfling	193
Human··---- .•.•••••••••••••••••.•.•••••••194 Orc........................................	195
TieAing	196
Ch.5: Feats	198
Feat Descriptions	199
Origin Feats	200
General Feats	202
Fighting Style Feats	209
Epic Boon Feats	210
Cb. 6: Equ.ipment	212
Coins	213
Weapons	213
Properties	213
Mastery Properties	214
Armor	219
Tools	220
Adventuring Gear	222
Mounts and Vehicles	229
Services---··························..··••··	230
Magic ltems	232
Crafting Equipment	233
Cb. 7:Spells	234
GainingSpells	235
Casting Spclls	235
Spell Descriptions	239
App. A: The Multiverse	344
The Material Realms	344
Transitive Planes	344
The Inner Planes	344
The Outer Planes	344
App. 8: Creature Stat Blocks	346
App. C:Rules Glossary	360
College of Dance	64
Illusionist...................................................175 1nd ex	378
INTRODUCTION
WELCOME TO ADVENTURE




THIS STORY BEGAN 50 YEARS AGO, AND YOU'RE PARTOI'
it. In the1970s. Gary Gygaxand Dave Arneson created a game of make-believelhatfused ruleswith storytelling. 11iere'd never beenanything /iA·eit: agamein which each player made their ownfantasy character and teamed up with theirfriends10go onquests. One person served asthe narrator and referee-the Dungeon Master-and did every• thingthey could tochallengeand delight the other players. That gamewas. of course. thefirstversion of Dungeons&: Dragons. andyou·re now readingits latest version.
Over thedecades. millionsof peoplehaveplayed D&:D. and scores ofwriters.game designers. and artists have made their marA·on ii through itsvarious editions.When our team released thecurrent edition in 2014, we were humbled by how many ofyou loved it. Thisrevised ver· sion ofit is a salute toallofyou-those ofyou who'vebeen playing D&Dfor years. those ofyou who'vecontributed to thegame throughyourfeedbacA·, and those ofyou who are about toexperience thejoy of playing itfor thefirst time.
As a teenager. I met both Gary and Dave. I even spent an entire day with Gary, and we did what oll D&:Dfansdo: sharestoriesabout our adventures in the D&D multiverse. I Inviteyou toembark on such adventures anew. Share as much loughterasyou canwithyourfriends. Use onry the rules that serveyourfun.and alwaysfollawyourgroup's
bliss. So many people have been enjoying themagic of D&D for half a century. Let'skeep It blazing/or another 50years!
-Jeremy Crawford

RE YOU READY TO EMBARK ON FANTASY
adventures with your friends? DUNGEONS & DRAGONS invites you to play imaginary
adventurers who delve into dungeons and other perilous locations together, face fearsome foes such as dragons, and build friendships forged amid fan· tasticaJ dangers.
Fueled by imagination and rules. D&D invites you to adopt a fantasy persona-a mighty Fighter, a
cunning Rogue, a faithful Cleric, a magical Wizard, or something else-and then solve problems, fight monsters, and visit wondrous places.
There's no winning and losing in O&O, at least not the way those terms are usually understood. Together you and friends create an exciting story




adventurer might come to a tragic end. Even so, the other adventurers can search for powerful magic to revive their fallen comrade, or the character's player might create a new character to carry on. No matter what happens, if everyone has a good time and ere· ates a memorable story, they all win.
WHAT You NEED
Here's what you need to play O&D with one or more friends (a typical group has five people):
Dungeon Master. One person takes on the role of the Dungeon Master (OM), the game's lead story· teller and referee.The OM creates adventures for the players' characters, who navigate its hazards and decide which paths to explore. The OM also narrates what they experience and plays the friends and foes they meet along the way. Even though the OM challenges the adventurers, the OM always strives to delight the whole group.
Players. Each player creates an adventurer who teams up with the other players' adventurers. Working together, the group might explore a dark dungeon, a ruined city, a haunted castle, a lost temple, a lava-filled mountain, or another location described by the OM. The adventurers also solve puzzles, talk with other characters, battle fantas-tic monsters, and discover magic items and other treasure-all while supporting each other's fun.
You also need these resources, either in physical form or on OnOBeyond.com:
Player's Handbook. This book is your essential reference for the game's rules, and it guides you through making an adventurer of your own.
Dungeon Master's Guide and Monster Manual. The first of these books guides the OM through creat· ingand running adventures, and the second holds hundreds of monsters to fill those adventures.
 	
LEARN BY WATCH INC
A great way to learn the basics of D&D is to watch people play it. The Internet offers videos of D&D play that show off the tremendous range of possi• bilities the game offers. As you watch, pay atten• tion to the ways that some players help make the game fun for everyone in their group. The only audience you need to entertain when you're play•
ing D&D is yourselfand your group.
of adventurers who confront perils. Sometimes an		


INTRODUCTlO.N I WELCOME TO ADVENTURE
Dice. You need a set of polyhedral dice (shown in chapter1). You can find dice like these in game stores and from online retailers. Dice-rolling apps are also available.
Character Sheet. To keep track of important in• formation about your character, you need a char• acter sheet, which can be as simple as a piece of paper you write notes on or as feature-rich as a digital record.
The DM might also find these accessories useful:
DM Screen. Many DMs like to use a screen to shield their notes and dice rolls from players. It's bad manners to peek over the screen!
Miniatures a.nd Battle Grid. Some DMs use a bat• tie grid and miniatures to run combat encounters, since they help everyone visualize the action.A battle grid can be anything marked out in I-inch squares, from disposable sheets of paper to poster maps. And miniatures range from simple tokens to detailed figurines. Online maps and miniatures are also available, including on DnOBeyond.com.
USING THIS BOOK
Here's what you'll find in this book:
Chapter 1: Playing the Game. The first chapter ex-plains the fundamentals of the game, with exam· pies to help you understand how to play.
Chapter 2: Creating a Character. Chapter 2 walks you through the steps of character creation.
Chapter 3: Character Classes. Characters' capa· bilities are largely determined by class, such as Fighter or Wizard. Chapter 3 offers twelve classes to choose from. along with forty-eight subclasses.
Chapter 4: Character Origins. Background and
species are key elements in defining a character's origin, which further shapes the character's abil-ities beyond the choice of class. Background and species options are presented in chapter 4.
Chapter 5: Feats. The feats in chapter 5 are special features that characters gain as part of their back-
ground and class.
Chapter 6: Equipment. Armor, weapons, and ad-venturing gear are found in chapter 6.
Chapter 7: Spells. This chapter contains descrip• tions of the spells that spellcasters can cast.
Appendix A:The Multiverse. Here you'll find an overview of the magical multiverse where D&D adventures take place.
Appendix B: Creature Stat Bloc.ks. This appendix brims with game information for creatures that certain characters can befriend or transform into.
Appendix C: Rules Glossary. The game's main rules terminology is summarized in this appendix, making it an invaluable reference during play.

WHAT'S New IN THE 2024 VERSION?
This is the 2024 version of the fifth edition Play-er's Handbook. If you've read the 2014 version, much of this book will feel familiar, since the fun• damental rules of the game are the same. But the book contains many new or redesigned elements, and the versions of things in this book replace versions from older books. Here are highlights:
Streamlined Rules. The game's rules have been streamlined and are now supported by a rules glossary.
Easier Character Creation. Using chapter 2, mak-
ing a character is easier than ever before.
Enhanced Classes. In chapter 3, every class and subclass has been ehhanced with new options.
Reimagined Origins. Explored in chapter 4, a character's origin is now defined by back-ground and species, each of which has been redesigned.
Expanded Feats. In chapter 5, feats have been re-designed, with many feats added.
Upgraded Weapons, Tools, and Crafting. Mastery properties transform how weapon wielders use their weapons, and every character can enjoy new tool and crafting rules in chapter 6.
Dazzling Spells. Chapter 7 bursts with new spells and old ones that have been enhanced.
If you can't find a rule, check the index. If a rule's name has changed from what was printed in the 2014 Player's Handbook, the index points you to the new name. For example, if you look up Inspi-ration in the index, it points you to the rules for Heroic Inspiration in the rules glossary.

WORLDS OF ADVENTURE
Theworlds of O&D glimmer with magic, monsters, and spectacular adventure. Launching from a foun-dation of medieva I fantasy. these worlds soar with possibilities beyond those of our reaUty.
O&O worlds exist in a multiverse and are con· nected to one another and to other planes of ex-istence.Some of the worlds have been published as official O&O settings, including the Greyhawk, Forgotten Realms, Dragonlance, Spelljammer, Planescape, Dark Sun, Eberron, and Ravenlolt set-tings. Alongside these worlds are thousands more,
created by generations of O&O players for their own games. Amid the richness of the multiverse, you might create a world of your own.
The worlds of the multiverse sharecharacteris-tics, but each world is set apart by its own history and geography. Your OM might set a campaign on one of these worlds or on a world of their own in· vention. Because there is so much variety among O&O worlds, check with your OM about the world of your upcoming adventures.
INTRODUCTION' I WELCOME TO ADVENTURE	5

CHAPTER 1
PLAYING THE GAME
"CY 

MAGINATION IS A KEY INGREDIENT OF
DUNGEONS & DRAGONS, a cooperative game in which the characters that you roleplay em·
bark on adventures together in fantasy worlds filled with monsters and magic.
In D&D, the action takes place in the imaginations of the players, and it's narrated by everyone to·
get her. Here's a glimpse at what that looks like:
Jared (as Dungeon Master): After your long journey, Castle Ravenloft towers before you. Crumbling towers of stone-perhaps abandoned guard-houses-loom over the approach. Beyond them, you see a gaping chasm disappearing into deep fog below. A lowered drawbridge spans the chasm, its chains creaking in the wind. Stone gargoyles stare down at you from the high walls, and a pale light spills into the courtyard from the open ca·stle doors beyond.
Phillip (as Gareth): I examine the gargoyles. I have a feeling they're not just statues!
Maeve {as Mirabella): I want to see how sturdy the drawbridge is. Do I think we can cross it, or is ii going to collapse under our weight?
Jared: All right, one at a time. Phillip, Gareth's look-ing at the gargoyles?
Phillip: Yeah. Is there any hint they might be crea• tures and not just decorations?
Jared: Make an Intelligence check. Phillip: Does my Investigation skill apply? Jared: Sure!
Phillip (rolling a d20): Ugh. Seven.
Jared: They look like decorations to you. And Maeve, Mirabella is examining the drawbridge?
The adventure continues from there. relying on the OM's descriptions to set the scenes. Later in the chapter, other examples of play focus on certain
aspects of D&D play: social interaction. exploration, and combat.


RULES GLOSSARY
If you read a rules term in this book and want to know its definition, consult the rules glossary, which is appendix C. This chapter provides an overview of how to play D&D and focuses on the big picture. Many places in this chapter reference that glossary.


PLAYER OR DM?
To play D&D, you need one person to be the Oun· geon Master and other players (three to six are best) to play adventurers. Which role is right for you?
BEIN"G A PLAYER
rfyou want to be one of the protagonists in your group's adventures, consider beinga player. Here's what players do:
Make a Character. Your character is your alter ego in the fantasy world of the game. After you read this chapter, use the rules in chapter 2 to create your character.
Team Up. Your character joins the other players' characters to form an adventuring party. These adventurers are allies who face challenges and fantasticalsituations together. Each character brings distinctive capabilities, which ideally com· plement those of the other characters.
Venture Forth. Your character's group explores locations and events presented by the OM. You can respond to them in any way you can imagine, guided by the rules in this book. Although the DM controls aII the monsters you encounter, the DM isn't your adversary. The OM guides your party's journey as your characters become more powerful.
B-E-I-NG THE DUNGEON MASTER 
If you want to be the mastermind of the game, con·
sider being the DM. Mere's what DMs do:
Build Adventures. You prepare the adventures that the players experience. In the Dungeon Master's Guide, you'll find advice for how to create adven· tures and even whole worlds.
Guide the Story. You narrate much of the action during play, describing locations and creatures that the adventurers face. The players decide what their characters do as they navigate hazards and choose what to explore. Then you use a combina• tion of imagination and the game's rules to deter-mine the results of the adventurers' decisions.
Adjudicate the Rules. You oversee how the group uses the game's rules, making sure the rules serve the group's fun. You'll want to read the rest of this chapter to understand those rules. and you'll find the rules glossary essential.
CHAPTER I I PLAY INC THE  CAME	7
RHYTHM OF PLAY
The three main pillars of D&D play are social in· teraction, exploration, and combat. Whichever one you're experiencing, the game unfolds according to this basic pattern:
1: The Dungeon Master Describes a Scene. The DM tells the players where their adventurers are and what's around them (how many doors lead out of a room, what's on a table, and so on).
2: The Players Describe What Their Characters Do.Typically, the characters stick together as they travel through a dungeon or another envi• ronment,Sometimes different adventurers do different things: one adventurer might search a treasure chest while a second examines a mys· terious symbol engraved on a wall and a third keeps watch for monsters. Outside combat, the DM ensures that every character has a chance to
act and decides how to resolve their activity. In combat, the characters take turns.
3: The DM Narrates the Results of the Adventur-ers' Actions.Sometimes resolving a task is easy. If an adventurer walks across a room and tries to open a door, the OM might say the door opens and describe what lies beyond. But the door might be locked, the floor might hide a trap, or
some other circumstance might make it chaUeng· ing for an adventurer to complete a task. In those cases, the DM might ask the player to roll a die to help determine what happens. Describing the re• suits often leads to another decision point, which brings the game back to step I.
This pattern holds duringevery gamesession (each time you sit down to play D&D), whether the adven• turers are talking to a noble, exploring a ruin, or fighting a dragon. In certain situations-particularly combat-the action is more structured, and every· one takes turns.

EXCEPTIONS SUPERSEDE GENERAL RULES
General rules govern each part of the game. For example, the combat rules tell you that melee attacks use Strength and ranged attacks use Dexterity. That's a general rule, and a general rule is in effect as long as something in the game doesn't explicitlysay otherwise.
The game also includes elements-class fea-tures, feats, weapon properties, spells, magic items, monster abilities, and the like-that some-times contradict a general rule. When an excep-tion and a general rule disagree, the exception wins. For example, if a feature says you can make melee attacks using your Charisma, you can do so, even though that statement disagrees with the general rule.
AN	ONGOING GAME
Sometimes a session of D&D is a complete game in itself (often called a "one-shot"), where you play a short adventure that lasts for just one session. More often, tbough, D&D sessions are connected in a longer adventure that takesseveral sessions to com· plete, and adventures can be strung together into a larger narrative called a campaign,
A campaign is like a TV series, while an adventure is like a season of the series. And a gamesession is like a single episode-it might be self.contained, but it usually links to the larger plot if there is one.
ADVENTURES
An adventure might be created by the Dungeon Master or purchased (the examples of play in this chapter are inspired bya published adventure, Curse ofSrra/1d). In either case, an adventure features a fantastic setting, such as an underground dungeon, a wondrous wilderness, or a magic-filled city. It in· eludes a cast of nonplayer characters controlled by the DM. Often one of the NPCs is a villain whose agenda drives much of an adventure's action.
During an adventure, the adventurers explore environments, events, and creatures presented by the DM. Battles, traps, negotiations, mysteries, and more arise during these explorations.
Adventures vary in length and complexity. A short adventure might present only a few challenges and take only one session to complete. A long ad· venture might involve many combats, interactions, and other challenges and take dozens of sessions.
CAMPAIGNS
A campaign is a series of adventures with a consis· tent groupof adventurers following the narrative.
Some campaigns are episodic, where each adven· ture is its own tale and not much besides the player characters links it to the next one. Other campaigns involve long-running plots, a cast of recurring NPCs, and themes that span multiple adventures, leading toward a climactic conclusion.
As with adventures, a OM might create a cam· paign from scratch, assemble a campaign from published adventures, or mix homemade material with published material. And the campaign might take place in a world of the DM's creation or in a published campaign setting,such as the Forgotten Realms or Greyhawk (the latter is described in the DungeonMaster's Guide).

ROUND DOWN
Whenever you divide or multiply a number in the game, round down if you end up with a fraction, even if the fraction is one-half or greater. Some rules make an exception and tell you to round up.



8	CHAPTER I I PLAYING THE GAME





DICE
Dice add randomness to the game.They help deter· mine whether characters and monsters are success· ful at the things they attempt.
DICE NOTATION
The dice used in D&D are referred to by the letter d followed by the die's number of sides: d4. d6, d8, dlO, d12, and d20. F'or instance, a d6 is a six-sided die (the cube that many games use).The illustration on this pageshows what each die looks like.
When you need to roll dice, the rules tell you how many dice to roll of a certain type, along with any numbers to add or subtract. F'or example, "3d8 • 5" means you roll three eight•sided dice. add them to· gether, and add 5 to the total.
PERCENTILE DICE
The rulessometimes refer to a dlOO. While such dice exist, the common way to roll ldlOO uses a pair of ten•sided dice numbered from Oto 9, known as percentile dice. One die-that you designate before rolling-gives the tens digit,and the other gives the onesdigit. lf you roll a 7 for the tens digit and a I for the ones digit, for example, the number rolled is 71. 1\vo Os represent 100.
Some ten-sided dice are numbered in tens (00, 10, 20, and so on), making it easier to distinguish the tens digit from the ones digit. In this case, a roll of 70 and I is 71. and 00 and O is 100.
D3
The same d notation appears in the expression "ld3," even though it's rare to find dice ,vith only threesides. To simulate rolling ld3, roll ld6 and di· vide the number rolled by 2 (round up).
WHAT ARE D1cE FoR?
Here are the most common uses of dice in D&D.
D20TEST
The20-sided die (d20) is the most important die you'll use in the game. It's central to the core me· chanic-called D20 Tests-the game uses to deter· mjne whether creatures succeed or fail at the things
INTERPRETINC DIE ROLLS IN THE STORY
Part of the fun of D&D is interpreting what die rolls mean in the story. The randomness that dice bring often introduces the unexpected: an expert fails, a novice succeeds, or any number of other twists. When a D20 Test or another roll produces a surprise, the Dungeon Master often gives a fun description of what happened. If you're a player, look for opportunities to interpret your charac-ter's die rolls and describe why things unfolded unexpectedly or even humorously.

they attempt during the game (see "D20 Tests"
later in this chapter). You roll a d20 whenever your character tries to do something that the DM decides has a chance of both success and failure.The higher your roll. the more likely it is that you succeed.
DAMACE
The most common use for dice other than the d20 is to determine damage. When you make a sue· cessful attack roll (one kind of D20 Test), you roll damage to see how effective the attack is. When you cast a spell, you might also roll damage. Different weapons and spells use different dice for damage.
F'or example. a Dagger uses ld4, a Greataxe uses td12. and a Fireball spell uses 8d6.
RANDOM TABLES
Occasionally. you'll see a table that uses a die roll to generate a random result. On these tables, you'll see a die expression, such as d!O or dlOO. in the header of the leftmost column. Roll that die,and find the number you rolled (or a range containing that num· ber) in that column. Read across that row for the result. F'or example, the Trinkets table in chapter 2
uses a dtOO.
PERCENTAGE CHANCES
Sometimes you might see a rule describing a per-centage chance of something happening. F'or exam· pie, a rule might say there is a 5 percent chance of something happening. You can determine whether that thing happens by rolling percentile dice; if the roll is equal to or less than the percentage chance (a 01 to 05, in this example), it happens.

 


CHAPTER I I PLAYINC THE CAME	9
THE Six ABILITIES
All creatures-characters and monsters-have six abilities that measure physical and mental charac-teristics, as shown on the Ability Descriptions table.

ABILITY DESCRIPTIONS
Ability	Score Measures ...
Strength	Physical might
Dexterity	 Agility, reflexes, and balance Constitution	 Health and stamina Intelligence	Reasoning and memory
Wisdom	 Perceptiveness and mental fortitude Charisma	Confidence, poise, and charm
ABILITY SCORES
Each ability has a score from 1 to 20, although some monsters have a score as high as 30. The score represents the magnitude of an ability. The Ability Scores table summarizes what the scores mean.

ABILITY SCORES
Score	Meaning
1  This is the lowest a score can normally go. If an effect reduces a score to 0, that effect explains what happens.
D20 TESTS
When the outcome of an action is uncertain, the game uses a d20 roll to determine success or failure. These rolls are called 020 Tests, and they come in three kinds: ability checks. saving tnrows. and at-tack rolls. They follow these steps:
l: Roll ld20. You always want to roll high.If the roll has Advantage or Disadvantage (described later in this chapter), you roll two d20s, but you use the number from only one of them-the higher one if you have Advantage or the lower one if you have Disadvantage.
2: Add Modifiers. Add these modifiers to the num-ber rolled on the d20:
The Relevant Ability Morufier. This chapter and the rules glossary explain which ability modifiers to use for various 020 Tests.
Your Proficiency Bonus If Relevant. Each crea-
ture has a Proficiency Bonus, a number added when making a 020 Test that usessomething. such as a skill, in which the creature has profi-ciency. See "Proficiency" later in this chapter. Circumstantial Bonuses and Penalties. A class feature, a spell, or another rule mjght give a bo-nus or penalty to the die roll.
3: Compare the Total to a Target Number. If the total of the d20 and its modifiers equals or ex-
2-9
10-11
12-19
20

21-29
30
This represents a weak capability. This represents the human average. This represents a strongcapability.
This is the highest an adventurer's score can go unless a feature says otherwise. This represents an extraordinary capability.
This is the highest a score can go.
ceeds the target number, the D20 Test succeeds. Otherwise, it fails. The Dungeon Master deter· mines target nwnbers and tells players whether their rolls are successful. The target number
for an ability check or a saving throw is called a Difficulty Class (DC). The target number for an attack roll is called an Armor Class (AC), which appears on a character sheet or in a stat block (see the rules glossary).
ABILITY MODIFIERS
Each ability has a modifier that you apply whenever you make a 020 Test with that ability (explained in "020 Tests"). An ability modifier is derived from its score, as shown in the Ability Modifiers table.

ABILITY MODIFIERS

Score	Modifier
-5	Score
16-17	Modifier
+3
2-3	-4	18-19	+4
4-5	-3	20-21	+5
6-7	-2	22-23	+6
8-9	-1	24-25	+7
10-11	+O	26-27	+8
12-13	+l	28-29	+9
14-15	+2	30	+10
ABILITY CHECKS
An ability check represents a creature using talent and training to try to overcome a challenge, such as forcing open a stuck door, picking a lock, enter-taininga crowd,or deciphering a cipher. The OM and the rules often call for an ability check when a creature attempts something other than an attack that has a chance of meaningful fajlure. When the outcome is uncertain and narratively interesting, the dice determine the result.
ABILITY MODIFIER
An ability check is named for the ability modifier it uses: a Strength check, an Intelligence check, and so on. Different ability checks are called for in differ-ent situations. depending on which ability is most relevant. See the Ability Check Examples table for examples of each check's use.


10	CHAPTER I I PLAYING THE CAME
































ABILITY CHECK EXAMPLES
Ability	Make a Check To ...
Strength	 Lift, push, pull, or break something Dexterity	Move nimbly, quickly, or quietly Constitution	 Push your body beyond normal limits Intelligence	 Reason or remember
Wisdom		Notice things in the environment or in creatures' behavior
Charisma	Influence, entertain, or deceive

PROFICIENCY BON US
Add your Proficiency Bonus to an abilitycheck when the DM determines that a skill or tool pro• ficiency is relevant to the check and you have that proficiency. For example, if a rule refers to a Strength (Acrobatics or Athletics) check, you can
add your Proficiency Bonus to the check if you have proficiency in the Acrobatics or Athletics skill. See "Proficiency" later in this chapter for more informa• tion about skill and tool proficiencies.
DIFFICULTY CLASS
The Difficulty Class of an ability check represents the task's difficulty. The more difficult the task, the hjgher its DC. The rules provide DCs for certafo
checks, but the OM ultimately sets them.The Typi-cal Difficulty Classes table presents a range of possi· ble DCs for ability checks.
TYPICAL DIFFICULTY CLASSES
Task Difficulty	DC	Task Difficulty	DC Very easy		5	 Hard	 20
Easy	10 Very hard	25
Medium	15	Nearly impossible	30

SAVING THROWS
Asaving throw-also called a save-represents an attempt to evade or resist a threat,such as a fiery explosion, a blast of poisonous gas, or a spell trying to invade your mind. You don't normally choose to make a save; you must make one because your char· acter or a monster (if you're the OM) is at risk. A save's result is detailed in the effect that caused it.
If you don't want to resist the effect, you can choose to fail the save without rolling.
ABILITY MODIFIER
Saving throws are named for the ability modifiers they use: a Constitution saving throw, a Wisdom saving throw, and so on. Different saving throws are used to resist different kinds of effects, as shown on the Saving Throw Examples table.

CHAPTER I I PLAYINC THE CAME	IT
SAVINC THROW EXAMPLES
Ability	Make a Save To...
Strength	 Physically resist direct force Dexterity	Dodge out of harm's way Constitution	 Endure a toxic hazard Intelligence	 Recognize an illusion as fake Wisdom	 Resist a mental assault Charisma	 Assert your identity
PROFICIENCY Boi:-ius
You add your Proficiency Bonus to your saving throw if you have proficiency in that kind of save. See "Proficiency'" later in this chapter.
DIFFICULTY CLASS
The Difficulty Class for a saving throw is deter-mined by the effect that causes it or by the OM. For example, if a spell forces you to make a save. the DC is determined by the caster's spellcasting abilityand Proficiency Bonus. Monster abilities that call for savesspecify the DC.
ATTACK ROLLS
An attack roll determines whether an attack hits a target. An attack roll hits if the roll equals or ex-
ceeds the target's Armor Class. Attack rolls usually occur in battle, described in "Combat" later in this chapter, but the OM might also ask for an attack roll in other situations, such as an archery competition.
ABILITY MODIFIER
The Attack Roll Abilities table sho,vs which ability modifier to use for different types of attack rolls.

ATTACK ROLL ABILITIES
Ability	Attack Type
Strength		Melee attack with a weapon or an Un-armed Strike (see the rules glossary)
Dexterity	Ranged attack with a weapon
Varies	Spell attack (the ability used is deter-mined by the spellcaster's spellcasting feature, as explained in chapter 7)
Some features let you use different ability modifiers from those listed. For example, the Finesse property (see chapter 6) lets you use Strength or Dexterity with a weapon that has that property.
PROFICIENCY BONUS
You add your Proficiency Bonus to your attack roll when you attack usinga weapon you have profi-ciency with, as well as when you attack with a spell. See "Proficiency" later in thischapter for more in-formation about weapon proficiencies.
ARMOR CLASS
A creature's Armor Class represents how well the creature avoids being wounded in combat. The AC of a character is determined at character creation (see chapter 2), whereas the AC of a monster ap-pears in its stat block.
Calculating AC. All creatures start with the same base AC calculation:
Base AC = 10 + the creature's Dexterity modifier
A creature's AC can then be modified byarmor. magic items, spells, and more.
Only One Base AC. Some spells and class features give characters a different way to calculate their AC. A character with multiple features that give dif· ferent ways to calculate AC must choose which one to use; only one base calculation can be in effect for a creature.
ROLLING 20 OR I
If you roll a 20 on the d20 (called a "natural 20") for an attack roll. the attack hits regardless of any modifiers or the target's AC. This is called a Critical Hit (see "Combat" later in this chapter).
If you roll a I on the d20 (a "natural I") for an at-tack roll, the attack misses regardless of any modifi• ers or the target's AC.
ADVANTAGE/DISADVANTAGE
Sometimes a 020 Test is modified by Advantage or Disadvantage. Advantage reflects the positive
circumstances surrounding a d20 roll, while Disad-vantage reflects negative circumstances.
You usually acquire Advantage or Disadvantage through the use of special abilities and actions.The OM can also decide that circumstances grant Ad-vantage or impose Disadvantage.
ROLL Two D20s
When a roll has either Advantage or Disadvantage. roll a second d20 when you make the roll. Use the higher of the two rolls if you have Advantage, and use the lower roll if you have Disadvantage. For ex-ample, if you have Disadvantage and roll an 18 and a 3, use the 3. lfyou instead have Advantage and roll those numbers, use the18.
THEY DON'T STACK
If multiple situations affect a roll and they all grant Advantage on it, you still roll only two d20s. Simi-larly, if multiple situations impose Disadvantage on a roll, you roll only two d20s.
If circumstances cause a roll to have both Advan-tage and Disadvantage, the roll has neither of them, and you roll one d20. This is true even if multiple circumstances impose Disadvantage and only one grants Advantage or vice versa. In such a situation, you have neither Advantage nor Disadvantage.


12	CHAP.T.ER I I PLAYING TH.E GAME




JI!' vou H,t.Vl AovAN'ttlGI, uu  ,,..? 18
}Ii' VOU M/IV[ 01SAOvAN1'1\(.i1i0 UH TM( ,l





INTERACTIONS WITH REROLLS
When you have Advantage or Disadvantage and something in the game lets you reroll or replace the d20, you can reroll or replace only one die. not both. You choose which one.
For example, if you have Heroic Inspiration (see the sidebar) and roll a 3 and an 18 on an ability check that has Advantage or Disadvantage, you could expend your Heroic Inspiration to reroll one of those dice. not both of them.


HEROIC INSPIRATION
Sometimes the OM or a rule gives you Heroic Inspiration. Ifyou have Heroic Inspiration, you can expend it to reroll any die immediately after rolling it, and you must use the new roll.
Only One at a Time. You can never have more
than one instance of Heroic Inspiration. If some-thing gives you Heroic Inspiration and you al-ready have it, you can give it to a player character in your group who lacks it.
Coining Heroic Inspiration. Your OM can give you Heroic Inspiration for a variety of reasons. Typically, OMs award it when you do something particularly heroic, in character, or entertaining. It's a reward for making the game more fun for everyone playing.
Other rules might allow your character to gain Heroic Inspiration independent of the OM's deci• sion. For example, Human characters start each day with Heroic Inspiration.
	
PROFICIENCY
Characters and monsters are good at various things. Some are skilled with many weapons. while others can use onlya few. Some are better at understand-ing people's motives, and others are better at un-locking the secrets of the multiverse. All creatures have a Proficiency Bonus, which reflects the impact that training has on the creature's capabilities. A character's Proficiency Bonus increases as the char-acter gains levels (described in chapter 2).Amon-ster's Proficiency Bonus is based on its Challenge Rating (see the rules glossary). The Proficiency Bo-nus tableshows how the bonus is determined.
This bonus is applied to a D20 Test when the crea-ture has proficiency in a skill, in a saving throw. or with an item that the creature uses to make the D20 Test. The bonus is also used for spell attacks and for calculating the DC of saving throws for spells.

PROFICIENCY BONUS

Level or CR	Bonus	Level or CR	Bonus
Up to 4	+2	17-20	+6
5-8	+3	21-24	+7
9-12	+4	25-28	+8
13-16	+5	29-30	+9

THE  BONUS DOESN'T STACK
Your Proficiency Bonus can't be added to a die roll or another number more than once. For example. if a rule allows you to make a Charisma (Deception or Persuasion) check, you add your Proficiency Bonus if you're proficient in either skill. but you don't add it twice if you're proficient in both skills.
Occasionally, a Proficiency Bonus might be multi-plied or divided (doubled or halved, for example) be-fore beingadded. For example, the Expertise feature (see the rules glossary) doubles the Proficiency Bo-nus for certain ability checks. Whenever the bonus is used. it can be multiplied only once and djvided onlyonce.
SKILL PROFICIENCIES
Most ability checks involve usinga skill,which rep-resents a category of things creatures try to do with an ability check. The descriptions of the actions
you take (see "Actions" later in this chapter) specify which skill applies if you make an ability check for that action, and many other rules note when a skill is relevant. The OM has the ulti.mate say on whether a skill is relevant in a situation.
If a creature is proficient in a skill, the creature
applies its Proficiency Bonus to ability checks in-volving that skill. Without proficiency in a skill, a creature can still make ability checks involving
CHAPTER I I PLAYING THE GAME	13
SKILLS
Skill	Ability
Acrobatics	Dexterity Animal Handling Wisdom Arcana	 Intelligence
Athletics	Strength
Deception	Charisma
History	Intelligence
Insight	Wisdom
Intimidation	Charisma
Investigation	Intelligence
Medicine	Wisdom
Nature	Intelligence
Perception	Wisdom
Performance	Charisma
Persuasion	Charisma
Religion	Intelligence Sleight of Hand	 Dexterity Stealth	 Dexterity
Survival	Wisdom

Example Uses
Stay on your feet in a tricky situation, or perform an acrobatic stunt. Calm or train an animal, or get an animal to behave in a certain way. Recall lore about spells, magic items, and the planes of existence.
Jump farther than normal, stay afloat in rough water, or break something. Tell a convincing lie, or wear a disguise convincingly.
Recall lore about historical events, people, nations, and cultures. Discern a person's mood and intentions.
Awe or threaten someone into doing what you want.
Find obscure information in books, or deduce how something works. Diagnose an illness, or determine what killed the recently slain.
Recall lore about terrain, plants, animals, and weather.
Using a combination of senses, notice something that's easy to miss. Act, tell a story, perform music, or dance.
Honestly and graciously convince someone of something. Recall lore about gods, religious rituals, and holy symbols.
Pick a pocket, conceal a handheld object, or perform legerdemain. Escape notice by moving quietly and hiding behind things.
Follow tracks, forage, find a trail, or avoid natural hazards.
that skill but doesn't add its Proficiency Bonus. For example, if a character tries to climb a cliff. the OM might ask for a Strength (Athletics) check. If the character has Athletics proficiency, the character adds their Proficiency Bonus to the Strength check. Lf the character lacks that proficiency, they make the check without adding their Proficiency Bonus.
SKILL LIST
Tbeskills are shown on the Skills table, which notes example uses for each skill proficiency as well as the ability check the skill most often applies to.
DETERMINING SKILLS
A character's starting skill proficiencies are deter-mined at character creation, and a monster's skill proficiencies appear in its stat block.


SKILLS WITH DIFFERENT ABILITIES
Each skill proficiency is associated with an abil-ity check. For example, the Intimidation skill is associated with Charisma. In some situations, the OM might allow you to apply your skill profi-ciency to a different ability check. For example, if a character tries to intimidate someone through a show of physical strength, the OM might ask for
a Strength (Intimidation) check rather than a Cha-risma (Intimidation) check. That character would make a Strength check and add their Proficiency Bonus if they have Intimidation proficiency.
SAVING THROW PROFICIENCIES
Proficiency in a saving throw lets a character add their Proficiency Bonus to saves that use a partic-ular ability. For example, proficiency in Wisdom saves lets you add your Proficiency Bonus to your Wisdom saves. Some monsters also have saving throw proficiencies.as noted in their stat blocks.
Each class gives proficiency in at least two saving throws, repre.senting that class's training in evading or resisting certain threats. Wizards, for example. are proflcient in Intelligence and Wisdom saves; they train to resist mental assault.
EQUIPMENT PROFICIENCIES
Acharacter gains proficiency with various weapons and tools from their class and background. There are two categories of equipment proficiency:
Weapons. Anyone can wield a weapon, but profi-ciency makes you better at wielding it. If you have proficiency with a weapon, you add your Profi-ciency Bonus to attack rolls you make"•ith it.
Tools. If you have proficiency with a tool, you can add your Proficiency Bonus to any ability check you make that uses the tool. If you have Profi-ciency in the skill that's also used with that check, you have Advantage on the check too. This means you can benefit from both skill proficiency and tool proficiency on the same ability check.





l,j,	CHAPTER) I PLAYINGTHEGAME
ACTIONS
When you do something other than moving or communicating, you typically take an action. The Action table lists the game's main actions, which are defined in more detail in the rules glossary.

ACTIONS
Actions can come up in other situations, too: in a social interaction, you can try to Influence a crea-ture or use the Search action to read the creature's body language, but you can't do both at the same time.And when you're exploring a dungeon, you can't simultaneously use the Search action to look for traps and use the Help action to aid another character who's trying to open a stuck door (with
Action Attack

Dash
Summary
Attack with a weapon or an Unarmed Strike.
For the rest of the turn, give yourself extra movement equal to your Speed.
the Utilize action).
BONUS ACTIONS
Various class features, spells, and other abilities let you take an add.itional action on your turn called a Bonus Action. The Cunning Action feature, for ex-
Disengage Your movement doesn't provoke Oppor-
tunity Attacks for the rest of the turn.
ample, allows a Rogue to take a Bonus Action, You can take a Bonus Action only when a special ability,
Dodge




Help Hide
Until the start of your next turn, attack rolls against you have Disadvantage, and you make Dexterity saving throws with Advantage. You lose this benefit if you have the Incapacitated condition or if your Speed is 0.
Help another creature's ability check or attack roll, or administer first aid.
Make a Dexterity (Stealth) check.
a spell, or another feature of the game states that youcandosomething as a Bonus Action, You other-wise don't have a Bonus Action to take.
You can take only one Bonus Action on your turn, so you must choose which Bonus Action to use if you have more than oneavailable.
You choose when to take a Bonus Action during your turn unless the Bonus Action's timing is spec-ified. Anything that deprives you of your ability to take actions also prevents you from takinga Bonus
Influence		Make a Charisma (Deception, Intimi-dation. Performance, or Persuasion) or Wisdom (Animal Handling) check to alter a creature's attitude.
Magic	Cast a spell, use a magic item, or use a magical feature.
Ready		Prepare to take an action in response to a trigger you define.
Search	Make a Wisdom (Insight, Medicine, Perception, or Survival) check.
Study		Make an Intelligence (Arcana, History, Investigation, Nature, or Religion) check.
Utilize	Use a nonmagical object.
Player characters and monsters can also do things not covered by these actions. Many class features and other abilities provide additional action options, and you can improvise other actions. When you de-scribe an action not detailed elsewhere in the rules, the Dungeon Master tells you whether that action
is possible and what kind of 020 Test you need to make, if any.
ONE THING AT A TIME
Thegame uses actions to govern how much you can do at one time. You can take only one action at a time. This principle is most important in combat, as explained in "Combat" later in this chapter.
Action.
REACTIONS
Certain special abilities, spells, and situations allow you to take a special action called a Reaction. A Reaction is an instant response to a trigger of some kind, which can occur on your turn or onsomeone else's.The Opportunity Attack, described later in this chapter, is the most common type of Reaction.
When you take a Reaction. you can't take another one until the start of your next turn. If the reaction interrupts another creature's turn, that creature can continue its turn right after the Reaction.
In terms of timing, a Reaction takes place immedi-ately after its trigger unless the Reaction's descrip-tion says otherwise.
 	
WHAT WOULD YOUR CHARACTER Do?
Ask yourself as you play, "What would my char-acter do?" Playing a role involves some amount of getting into another person's head and under-standing what motivates them and how those motivations translate into action. In D&D, those actions unfold against the backdrop of a fantastic world full of situations we can only imagine. How does your character react to those situations?
This advice comes with one important caveat: avoid character choices that ruin the fun of the other players and the DM. Choose actions that delight you and your friends.
CHAPTER I I PLAYING THE GAME	15























SOCIAL INTERACTION
During their adventures, player characters meet many different people and face some monsters that would rather talk than fight. In those situations. it's time for social interaction, which takes many forms.
For example, you might try to convince a burglar to confess to wrongdoing or try to flatter a guard. The Dungeon Master assumes the ,·oles of any non• player characters who are participating.
An NPC's attitude toward your character is Friendly, Indifferent, or Hostile, as defined in the rules glossary. Friendly NPCs are predisposed to help, and Hostile ones are inclined to hinder.
Social interactions progress in two ways: through roleplaying and ability checks.
ROLEPLAYING
Roleplaying is, literally, the act of playing out a role. In this case, it's you as a player determining how your character thinks. acts, and talks. Roleplaying is part of every aspect of the game, and it comes to the fore duringsocial interactions.
As you roleplay, consider whether you prefer an active approach or a descriptive approach, each of which is described in "Social Interaction Example,"
The OM uses an NPC's personality and your char• acter's actions and attitudes to determine how an NPC reacts. A cowardly bandit might buckle under






























threats of imprisonment. Astubborn merchant refuses to help if the characters badger he,·. A vain dragon laps up flattery.
When interacting with an NPC, payattention to the DM's portrayal of the NPC's personality. You might be able to learn an NPC's goals and then use that information to influence the NPC.
If you offer NPCs something they want or play on their sympathies, fears, or goals, you can form friendships, ward off violence, or learn a key piece of information. On the other hand. if you insult a proud warrior or speak ill of a noble's allies, your efforts to convince or deceive will likely fail.
ABILITY CHECKS
Ability checks can be key in determining the out· come of a social interaction. Your roleplaying ef· forts can alter an NPC's attitude, but there might still be an element of chance if the OM wants dice to playa role in determining an NPC's response to you. In such situations, the OM will typically ask you to take the Influence action.
Pay attention to your skill proficiencies when thinking of how you will interact with an NPC; use an approach that relies on your group's skill profi-ciencies. For example, if the group needs to trick a guard into letting them into a castle, the Rogue who
is proficient in Deception should lead the discussion.	•


r6	CHAPTER I I Pl,,AY!NO THE GAME
SOCIAL INTERACTION EXAMPLE
In this scene, players engage i.n a social interaction encounter. You and your group determine how similar scenes play out in your adventures.
Fouradventurers-Shreeve, Mirabella, Auro, and Gareth-have traveled to the Blood on theVine tavern in the grim village of Barovia.

Jared (as OM):This tavern might have been finely appointed once, but it has grown shoddy with the passage of years. A blazing fire in the hearth barely gives any warmth to the room. You see a man behind the counter, methodically cleaning glasses. Three older women huddle together at one table.

And a handsome young man sits by himself at a corner table, sipping a glass of wine. He looks
up as you enter, but the other people ignore you. "Welcome to Barovia," he says. He holds a coin toward the bartender: "A pitcher for the visitors." The glint of silver catches the server's attention.
Maeve (as Mirabella): "Thank you, friend. May we know to whom we're indebted?"
Jared: "I am lsmark Kolyanovich, though around here, I am often called lsmark the Lesser."
Russell (as Shreeve): "That's unfortunate."
Jared: "Indeed. I hope one day to live up to my fa-ther's example and rid myselfof that title. And so, my new friends, who are you?"
Amy (as Auro): "I'm Auro." Russell: "Shreeve."
Phillip (as Gareth): "My name is Gareth."
Maeve (as Mirabella): "I'm called Mirabella. You said your name was Kolyanovich. Are you related to Kolyan lndirovich, the burgomaster of this town>"
Jared: He looks a little surprised. He says, "Kolyan lndirovich is my esteemed father, yes."
Maeve: "Then he's the one who summoned us!" I show him the letter that drew us here.
Phillip: I watch his reaction as he reads it.
Jared: He reaches for the letter but pulls back before
O	touching it. "That seal-it's notmy father's."
Gareth, make a Wisdom (Insight) check. Phillip: Gareth got 18.
Jared: You notice that lsmark is trying to conceal his terror. He's afraid to even touch the letter's seal.
Phillip: I ask him what's frightening him. Russell: "Yeah, whose seal is it>"
Jared: "The Devil Strahd."
Amy: "Sounds like a pleasant fellow."
Jared: "No! He is the vampire lord of Castle Raven-loft anda plague to my sister. You must help her!"







Active Roleplaying. Notice throughout the example how Russell and Amy actively role-play their characters' behavior. In this active approach, they speak with their characters' voices, like an actor taking on a role. The players might even echo their characters' body language. They still need to describe things that can't reasonably be acted out.
 	
CHAPTER I I PLAYING THE GAME	17




























Amy: "So Strahd wrote this letter, pretending to be the burgomaster, imploring us to come to Barovia and rescue lreena Kolyana from a deadly affliction
... which is him? Why would he do that?"
Russell: "Why would he want us to come here?" Maeve: "Clearly, he doesn't think we're a threat." Amy: "Well, he hasn't met us yet!"
Jared: "He's toying with you. He delights in the de-struction of all things good, like my dear sister."
Phillip: Gareth draws closer and compassionately asks lsmark whether his sister has been bitten by the vampire.
Jared: Please make a Charisma (Persuasion) check to
0	see how well he responds to your pastoral manner.
You have Advantage because he's Friendly.
Phillip: Oh, good thing. My first roll was a 7, but with Advantage ... ugh, not much better. Well, 10 plus 5 is 15.
Jared: lsmark leans toward you, Gareth, with a suspi-
cious glance at the other people in the tavern, like he's worried they're eavesdropping. He whispers, "The Devil Strahd desires to make lreena his latest plaything. Twice he has visited her in the night, using his devilry to secure an invitation into the house-for hecan't enter where he isn't invited. Twice he has bitten her, yet she clings to life. But I fear she won't survive another visit!"
Russell: "All right, lsmark. You bought us drinks and told us about the Devil Strahd and your sister, How can we help?"
Jared: "You are too kind! First, I need your help transporting lreena to the town ofVallaki."
Maeve: "Where's Vallaki?"
Jared: "It lies to the northwest, in the heart of the valley. As the raven flies, it is less than ten miles, but the road winds among the hills and woods, and the journey takes at least five hours at speed,"
Russell: "And why there?"
Jared: "The town lies beyond the view of Castle Ravenloft, so I hope it's beyond Strahd's spies. And I have heard that Vallaki is well defended, with a wooden palisade and iron gates."
Russell: "As if such defenses would stop a vampire,"
Jared: "Indeed. But if moving her there can keep him away from her for even a few days, we have time for the second part of our task."
Russell: "A part where you help us?"
Jared: "Yes, when I help you face the vampire!''

&,,;=,=======?
Influencing NPCs. Gareth takes the Influence action (see the rules glossary), which charac-ters can take to influence an NPC. It's easier to influence an NPC who's already disposed to help you. as lsmark is here. lsmark's Friendly attitude gives Phillip Advantage on the roll. In this case, Advantage made the difference between success and failure.


t8	CHAPTER 1 I PLAY INC THE CAME
SOCIAL INTERACTION EXAMPLE
In this scene, players engage in a social interaction encounter. You and your group determine how similar scenes play out in your adventures.
Four adventurers-Shreeve, Mirabella, Auro, and Gareth-hove traveled to the Blood on theVine tavern in the grim village of Borovia.

Jared (as OM): This tavern might have been finely appointed once, but it has grown shoddy with the passage of years. A blazing fire in the hearth barely gives any warmth to the room. You see a man behind the counter, methodically cleaning glasses. Three older women huddle together at one table.
And a handsome young man sits by himself at a corner table, sipping a glass of wine. He looks
up as you enter, but the other people ignore you. "Welcome to Barovia," he says. He holds a coin toward the bartender: "A pitcher for the visitors." The glint of silver catches the server's attention.
Maeve (as Mirabella): "Thank you, friend. May we know to whom we're indebted?"
Jared: "I amlsmark Kolyanovich, though around here, I am often called lsmark the Lesser."
Russell (as Shreeve): "That's unfortunate."
Jared: "Indeed. I hope one day to live up to my fa. the r's example and rid myself of that title. And so, my new friends, who are you?"
Amy (as Auro): "I'm Auro." Russell: ''Shreeve."
Phillip (as Gareth): "My name is Gareth."
Maeve (as Mirabella): "I'm called Mirabella. You said







Active Roleplaying. Notice throughout the example how Russell and Amy actively role-play their characters' behavior. In this active approach, they speak with their characters' voices, like an actor taking on a role. The players might even echo their characters' body language. They still need to describe things that can't reasonably be acted out.
 	


Descriptive Roleplaying. Notice how Phillip describes his character's words and action. Drawing on his mental image of his char• acter, he says what his character does and how the character does it. If this approach is most comfortable for you, keep these things in mind:
,	Describe your character's emotions and attitude.
,	Focus on your character's intent and how
others might perceive it.
,	Provide as much embellishment as you feel comfortable with.
Don't worry about getting things exactly right. Focus on what your character would do, and describe what you see in your mind.
your name was Kolyanovich. Are you related to		
Kolyan lndirovich, the burgomaster of this town?"
Jared: He looks a little surprised. He says, "Kolyan lndirovich is my esteemed father, yes."
Maeve: "Then he's the one who summoned us!" I
show him the letter that drew us here. Phillip: I watch his reaction as he reads it.
Jared: He reaches for the letter but pulls back before
O	touching it. "That seal-it's notmyfather's."
Gareth, make a Wisdom (Insight) check. Phillip: Gareth got 18.
Jared: You notice that lsmark is trying to conceal his terror. He's afraid to even touch the letter's seal.
Phillip: I ask him what's frightening him. Russell: "Yeah, whose seal is it?"
Jared: "The Devil Strahd."
Amy: "Sounds like a pleasant fellow."
Jared: "No! He is the vampire lord of Castle Raven-loft anda plague to my sister. You must help her!"
o_r		,,_
Ability Checks. Phillip's character, Gareth, makes a Wisdom (Insight) check to deter-mine whether he reads lsmark's unspoken cues. Wisdom is the ability that measures perceptiveness and intuition. Insight reflects a character's skill at reading other people's moods and intentions. The DM set the DC at 15, which Gareth beats. With a successful Wisdom (Insight) check, Gareth gleans in-formation that wasn't obvious, so it wasn't part of the DM's earlier narration. For more information, see "Ability Scores" and ''Profi-ciency" earlier in this chapter and the Search action in the rules glossary.
 		 	
CHAPTER I I PLAYING THE GAMI!	17


EXPLORATION
Exploration involves delving into places that are dangerous and full of mystery. The rules in this section detail some of the ways adventurers interact with the environment in such places.
ADVENTURING ?QUIPMENT
As adventurers explore, their equipment can help them in many ways. For example, they can reach out-of-the-way places with a Ladder, perceive things they wouldn't otherwise notice with a Torch or another light source. bypass locked doors and con-tainers with Thieves' Tools, and create obstacles for pursuers with Caltrops.
See chapter 6 for rules on many items that are useful on adventures. The items in that chapter's "Tools" and "Adventuring Gear" sections are es-pecially useful.The weapons in tbat chapter can also be used for more than battle; you could use a Quarterstaff, for example, to push a sinister-looking button that you're reluctant to touch.
VISION AND LIGHT
Some adventuring tasks-such as noticing danger, hittingan enemy, and targeting certain spells-are affected bysight, so effects that obscure vision can hinder you. as explained below.
OBSCURED AREAS
An area might be Lightly or Heavily Obscured. In a Lightly Obscured area-such as an area with Dim Light, patchy fog, or moderate foliage-you have Disadvantage on Wisdom (Perception) checks that rely on sight.
A Heavily Obscured area-such as an area with Darkness, heavy fog, or dense foliage-is opaque. You have the Blinded condition (see the rules glos-sary) when trying to see something there.
LIGHT


SPECIAL SENSES
Some creatures havespecial senses that help them perceive things in certain situations. The rulesglos-sary defines the following special senses:
Thepresence or absence oflight determines the cat-egory ofillumfoatioa in an area. as defined below.
Blindsight Darkvision
Tremorsense Truesight
Bright Light. Bright Light lets most creatures see normally. Even gloomy days provide Bright Light, as do torches, lanterns, fires, and other sources of illumination within a specific radius.
Dim Light. Dim Light, also called shadows, creates a Lightly Obscured area. An area of Dim Light is usually a boundary between Bright Light and sur-rounding Darkness. The soft light of twilight and dawn also counts as Dim Light. A full moon might bathe the land in Dim Light.
Darkness. Darkness creates a Heavily Obscured area. Characters face Darkness outdoors at night (even most moonlit nights), within the confines of an unlit dungeon, or in an area of magical Darkness.
 HIDING	
Adventurers and monsters often hide, whether to spy on one another, sneak past a guardian, or set an ambush. The Dungeon Master decides when cir-cumstances are appropriate for hiding. When you try to hide, you take the Hide action.
INTERACTING WITH OBJECTS
Interacting with objects is often simple to resolve. The player tells the OM that their character is do-ingsomething,such as moving a lever or opening a door,and the OM describes what happens. Some-times, however, rules govern"'hat you can do with an object, as detailed in the followingsections.
CHAPTER I J PLAYING THE  GAME	19
WHAT ls AN OBJECT?
For the purpose of the rules, an object is a discrete, inanimate item like a window, door, sword, book, table, chair, or stone. It isn't a building or a vehicle, wnich are composed of many objects.
TIME-LIMITED OBJECT INTERACTIONS
When time is short, such as in combat, interactions with objects are limited: one free interaction per turn. That interaction must occur duringa crea· ture's movement or action. Any additional inter• actions require the Utilize action, as explained in "Combat" later in thischapter.
FINDING HIDDEN OBJECTS
When your character searches for hidden things, such as a secret door or a trap, the OM typically asks you to make a Wisdom (Perception) check. provided you describe the character searching in the hidden object's vicinity. On a success, you find the object, other important details, or both.
If you describe your character searching nowhere near a hidden object, a Wisdom (Perception) check won't reveal the object. no matter the check's total.
CARRYING OBJECTS
You can usually carry your gear and treasure with-out worrying about the weight of those objects.
If you try to haul an unusually heavy object or a massive number of lighter objects, the OM might re· quire you to abide by the rules for carrying capacity in the rules glossary.
BREAKING OBJECTS
As an action, you can automatically break or oth· erwise destroy a fragile, nonmagical object,such as a glass container or a piece of paper. lf you try to damagesomething more resilient, the OM might use the ruleson breaking objects in the rules glossary.
HAZARDS
Monsters are the main perils characters face, but other dangers await. The rules glossary defines the following hazards:

MARCHINC ORDER
The adventurers should establish a marching order while they travel, whether indoors or out-doors. A marching order makes it easier to de-termine which characters are affected by traps, which ones can spot hidden enemies, and which ones are the closest to those enemies if a fight breaks out. You can change your marching order outside combat and record the order any way you like: write it down, for example, or arrange minia-tures to show it.

l'RAVELPACE
While traveling outside combat, a group can move at a Fast, Normal, or Slow pace, as shown on the Travel Pace table. The table states how far the party can move in a period of time; if riding horses or other mounts, the group can move twice that distance for I hour, after which the mounts need
a Short or Long Rest before they can move at that increased pace again (see chapter 6 for a selection of mounts for sale). The Dungeon Master's Guide has rules that affect which pace you can choose in cer-tain types of terrain.

TRAVEL PACE
Distance Traveled Per...
Pace	Minute	Hour	Day
Fast	400 feet	4 miles	30 miles
Normal	300 feet	3 miles	24 miles
Slow	200 feet	2 miles	18 miles
Each travel pace has a game effect, as defined below.
Fast. Traveling at a Fast pace imposes Disadvan-tage on a traveler's Wisdom (Perception or Sur· viva!) and Dexterity (Stealth) checks.
Normal. Traveling at a Normal pace imposes Dis· advantage on Dexterity (Stealth) checks.
Slow. Traveling at a Slow pace grants Advantage on Wisdom (Perception or Survival) checks.
VEHICLES
Travelers in wagons, carriages, or other land vehi-
Burning Dehydration
TRAVEL
Falling Malnutrition
Suffocation
cles choose a pace as normal. Characters in a water· borne vessel are limited to the speed of the vessel, and they don't choose a travel pace. Depending on the vessel and the size of the crew, ships might be
Duringan adventure, the characters might travel long distances on trips that could take hours or days. The OM can summarize this travel without calculatingexact distances or travel times, or the OM might have you use the travel pace rules below.
If you need to know how fast you can move when every second matters,see the movement rules in "Combat" later in this chapter.
able to travel for up to 24 hours per day. Chapter 6 includes vehicles for sale.
EXPLORATION EXAMPLE
This scene finds the player characters investigating a mysterious and potentially dangerous location.
They're moving through the environment and inter· acting with things they find there.



20	CHAPTER 1 I PLAYING THE GAME


Thecharacters are exploring Castle Raven/oft, and the DM describes the room the characters have entered.

Jared (as OM): A blazing hearth fire fills this room with warm light. Firelight glints off a poker beside the fireplace, and the walls are lined with ancient books. A huge painting hangs above the mantel-piece in a gilded frame. The firelight illuminates the portrait-an exact likeness of lreena Kolyana.
Phillip (as Gareth): How old does the painting look? Maeve (as Mirabella): I'm going to check the books! Jared: OK, I'll get to those in a second. Russell and
Amy, what are your characters doing?
Russell (as Shreeve): I stand near the door, sword drawn, ready for danger. This place is creepy!
Amy (as Auro): I go near the fireplace. A warm fire
sounds nice. But I'm also alert for danger.
Jared: Got it. OK, Phillip, please make an Intelligence (History) check as Gareth looks at the painting.
0 Phillip: I don't have proficiency in History, but here
goes. I got-oh! A 20! For a total of ... 20.
fared: Two things leap out at Gareth about the paint-ing. First, the woman's clothes look old-fashioned. Second, the paint is flaking In places, and the whole thing is covered by a thin layer of soot.
You'd say this painting is a few centuries old.
Phillip: So maybe an ancestor of lreena's? Unless she's already a vampire and this "bitten by Strahd" thing is a ruse.
Jared: Who knows? Now, Mirabella's looking at the books?
Maeve: Yeah, I pull oneoff the shelf at random.






Or1-========?
Worth Rolling with or without Proficiency.
You usually have a chance of success on an ability check even if you don't have pro• ficiency in a relevant skill. In the example,
Phillip gets a 20 without proficiency. The d20 brings many surprises to the game-sur-prises that the DM then interprets.
 	
CHAPTER 1 I PLAYi NC THE CAME	21

Jared: It's a book written in Common called On the Habitations of the Divine in the Celestial and Infer-nal Realms.
Russell: Did you just make that up?
Jared: I'll never tell. As you flip through the book, you notice it's very academic, almost impenetrable.
Maeve: OK, I put that one back and pull out another. Jared: Are Shreeve and Auro doing anything else?
Amy: I grab the poker and poke at logs in the fire.
Jared: As soon as you lift thepoker, you hea? a grind• ing sound, and the back of the fireplace slides to the side, revealing a room behind it!
Amy: "Uh, folks? I found something!" Can I see anything in the room beyond?
Jared: Past the flames and smoke, you see a glim-mering pile of coins heaped near a chest.
Amy: Anybody have a quick way to put out a fire?
Phillip: And you laughed at me for preparing Create
or Destroy Water! I clutch my Holy Symbol and
·	======;;;;;
Finding Hidden Objects. Adventure environ•
ments are full of secrets: traps, concealed doors, loose floorboards, and hidden trea-sures. Characters often use Wisdom checks to find things-see theSearch action in the rules glossary-but sometimes they stum-ble on them accidentally, as Auro did here.

 	
Q	cast the spell, drenching the fireplace.
Jared: What does the spell's description say?
Phillip: It causes 10 gallons of water to rain down in a 30-foot Cube, extinguishing flames there.
Jared: Great! That puts out the fire. Without the light
from the hearth, you're back to the magic glow of Shreeve's sword, which casts your shadows into the room beyond. But you can see, through
clouds of lingering smoke, a closed chest on the
O	floor, surrounded by piles of coins. There are two
torch sconces on the far wall-one holding an unlit torch with an intricate metal base, the other empty. A skeleton in broken plate armor is lying against that wall, with one hand at its throat and the other holding the matching torch from the empty sconce.
Amy: I check out the chest! Jared: And the rest of you?
Phillip: Gareth enters and looks at the skeleton.
Maeve: I keep watch on this side of the fireplace. Russell: I'm still back by the first door.
Jared: Amy, the chest seems expertly made, with elegant fittings and clawed feet.
Amy: I try to open it. Is it locked?
Jared: It's notlocked and opens easily-and it re-leases a cloud of sweet-smelling gas.
Amy: Oh, no.
Jared: Oh, yes. I need Auro and Gareth to make Con-
0	stitution saving throws.
Amy: Sorry, Phillip! I got an 8. Phillip: And a 5 for Gareth.
Jared: As you draw this gas into your lungs, you feel a chill grip you, and your bodies stiffen. You both have the Paralyzed condition!



Know Your Spells! Have your Player's Hand-book open to the description of a spell before you cast it. Don't expect the OM to know how your spell works, and be ready to answer any questions about it.
o.r-----:==	1
Vision and Light. The OM determines what the adventurers can perceive, which means being aware of light sources-like the leap-ing flames in the fireplace and Shreeve's glowing sword-as well as obscuring factors like smoke and fog. See "Vision and Light" earlier in this chapter for more information.
or1=-=;	;;;;==?
22	CHAPTER l I PLAYING THŁ CAME


























COMBAT
Adventurers encounter many dangerous monsters and nefarious villains. In those moments, combat often breaks out.
THE ORDER OF COMBAT
A typical combat encounter is a clash between two sides: a flurry of weapon swings, feints, parries, footwork. and spellcasting. The game organizes combat into a cycle of rounds and turns. A round represents about 6 seconds in thegame world.
Duringa round, each participant in a battle takes a turn. The order of turns is determined at the begin• ning of combat when everyone rolls Initiative. Once everyone has taken a turn, the fight continues to the next round if neither side is defeated.
COMBAT STEP BY STEP
Combat unfolds in these steps:
1: Establish Positions. The Dungeon Master deter· mines where all the characters and monsters are located. Given the adventurers' marching order or their stated positions in the room or other lo· cation, the DM figures out where the adversaries are-how far away and in what direction.
2: Roll Initiative. Everyone involved in the combat encounter rolls Initiative, determining the order of combatants' turns.
3: Take Turns. Each participant in the battle takes a turn in Initiative order. When everyone in-volved in the combat has had a turn, the round ends. Repeat this step until the fighting stops.
lN!TIATlVE
Initiative determines the order of turns during combat. When combat starts, every participant rolls Initiative; they make a Dexterity check that determines their place in the Initiative order. The
DM rolls for monsters. For a group of identical crea· tures, the DM makes a single roll, so each member of the group has the same Initiative.
Surprise. If a combatant is surprised by combat starting, that combatant has Disadvantage on their Initiative roll. For example. if an ambusher starts combat while hidden from a foe who is unaware that combat is starting, that foe is surprised.
Initiative Order. A combatant's check total is called their Initiative count, or Initiative for short. The DM ranks the combatants. from highest to lowest Initiative. This is the order in ,vhich they act duringeach round. The Initiative order remains the same from round to round.
Ties. If a tie occurs, the DM decides the order among tied monsters, and the players decide the order among tied characters.The DM decides the order if the tie is between a monster and a player character.
YOUR TuRN
On your turn, you can move a distance up to your Speed and take one action. You decide whether to move first or take your action first.
The main actions you can take are listed in "Ac-tions" earlier in this chapter. A character's features and a monster's stat block also provide action op· tions."Movement and Position" later in this chapter gives the rules for movement.
CHAPTER I I PLAYING THE CAME	23






























Communicating.You can communicate however you are able-through brief utterances and ges· tures-as you take your turn. Doingso uses neither your action nor your move.
Extended communication,such as a detailed ex-planation of somethingor an attempt to persuade a foe, requires an action.The Influence action is the main way you try to influence a monster.
Interacting with Things. You can interact with one object or feature of the environment for free,
during either your move or action. For example. you could open a door during your move as you stride toward a foe.
If you want to interact with a second object, you need to take the Utilize action.Some magic items and other special objects always require an action to use, as stated in their descriptions.
The OM might require you to usean action for any of these activities when it needs special careor when it presents an unusual obstacle. For instance, the DM might require you to take the Uti.lize action to open a stuck door or turn a crank to lower a drawbridge.
Doing Nothing on Your Turn. You can forgo mov-ing, takingan action, or doinganything at all on your turn. If you can't decide what to do, consider taking the defensive Dodge action or tbe Ready ac-tion to delay acting.






































ENDING COMBAT
Combat ends when one side or tbe other is defeated, which can mean the creatures are killed or knocked out or have surrendered or fled. Combat can also end when both sides agree to end it.
MOVEMENT AND POSITION
On your turn, you can move a distance equal to your Speed or less. Or you can decide not to move.
Your movement can include climbing, crawling, jumping, and swimming (each explained in the rules glossary). These different modes of movement can be combined with your regular movement, or they can constitute your entire move.
However you're moving with your Speed, you deduct the distance of each part of your move from it until it is used up or until you are done moving, whichever comes first.
A character's Speed is determined during char-acter creation. A monster's Speed is noted in the monster's stat block. See the rules glossary for more about Speed as well as about special speeds.such as a Climb Speed, FlySpeed, or Swim Speed.
DIFFICULT TERRAIN
Combatants are olTenslowed down by Difficult Terrain. Low furniture. rubble, undergrowth, steep stairs, snow, and shallow bogs are examples of Diffi-cult Terrain.

24	CHAPTER I I PLAYi NC THE CAME

PLAYING ON A GRID
If you play using a square grid and miniatures or other tokens, follow these rules.
Squares. Each square represents 5 feet.
Speed. Rather than moving foot by foot, move square by square on the grid, using your Speed in 5-foot segments. You can translate your Speed into squares by dividing it by 5. For example, a Speed of 30 feet translates into 6 squares. If you use a grid often, consider writing your Speed in squares on your character sheet.
Entering a Square. To enter a square, you must have enough movement left to pay for entering. It costs l square of movement to enter an un• occupied square that's adjacent to your space (orthogonally or diagonally adjacent). A square of Difficult Terrain costs 2 squares to enter, Other effects might make a square cost even more.
Corners. Diagonal movement can't cross the corner of a wall, a large tree, or another terrain feature that fills its space.
Ranges. To determine the range on a grid between two things-whether creatures or ob-jects-count squares from a square adjacent to one of them and stop counting in the space of the other one. Count by the shortest route.


Every foot of movement in Difficult Terrain costs I extra foot, even if multiple things in a space count as Difficult Terrain.
BREAKING UP YOUR MOVE
You can break up your move, using some of its movement before and after any action, Bonus Ac· tion, or Reaction you take on the same turn. For ex· ample, if you have a Speed of 30 feet, you could go 10 feet. take an action, and then go 20 feet.
DROPPING PRONE
On your turn, you can give yourself the Prone condition (see the rules glossary) without using an action or any of your Speed, but you can't doso if your Speed is 0.
CREATURE SIZE
A creature belongs to a size category, which deter· mines the width of the square space the creature occupies oo a map, as shown on the Creature Size and Space table. That table lists the sizes from smallest (Tiny) to largest (Gargantuan). A creature's space is the area that it effectively controls in com· bat and the area it needs to fight effectively.
A character's size is determined byspecies, and a monster's size is specified in the monster's stat block.
CREATURE SIZE AND SPACE
Size	Space (Feet)	Space (Squares)
Tiny	21h by 21h feet	4 per square
Small	 5 by 5 feet	l square Medium	5 by 5 feet	l square
Large	10 by 10 feet	4 squares (2 by 2)
Huge	15 by 15 feet	9 squares (3 by 3)
Gargantuan	20 by 20 feet	16 squares (4 by 4)

MOVING AROUND OTHER CREATURES
During your move, you can pass through the space of an ally, a creature that has the Incapacitated con· dition (see the rulesglossary), a Tiny creature, or a creature that is two sizes larger or smaller than you.
Another creature's space i.s Difficult Terrain for you unless that creature is Ti.ny or your ally.
You can't willingly end a move in a space occupied by another creature. If you somehow end a turn in a space with another creature, you have the Prone condition (see the rules glossary) unless you are Tiny or are of a larger size than the other creature.
MAKING AN ATTACK
-
When you take the Attack action, you make an attack. Some other actions, BonusActions, and Re· actions also let you make an attack. Whether you strike with a Melee weapon, fire a Ranged weapon, or make an attack roll as part of a spell, an attack has the followingstructure:
I: Choose a Target. Pick a target within your at· tack's range: a creature, an object, or a location.
2: Determine Modi.tiers. The OM determines whether the target has Cover (see the next sec· tion) and whether you have Advantage or Dis· advantage against the target. In addition, spells. special abilities, and other effects can apply pen· alties or bonuses to your attack roll.
3: Resolve the Attack. Make the attack roll, as detailed earlier in this chapter. On a hit, you roll damage unless the particular attack has rules that specify otherwise. Some attacks cause spe· cial effects in addition to or instead of damage.
COVER
Walls, trees, creatures, and other obstacles can provide cover, making a target more difficult to harm. As detailed in the Cover table, there are three degrees of cover, each of which gives a different benefit to a target.
A target can benefit from cover only when an at-tackor other effect originates on the opposite side of the cover. If a target is behind multiple sources of




CHAPTER I I PLAYINC THE CAME	25

UNSEEN ATTACKERS AND TARGETS
When you make an attack roll against a target you can't see, you have Disadvantage on the roll. This is true whether you're guessing the target's loca-tion or targeting a creature you can hear but not see. If the target isn't in the location you targeted, you miss.
When a creature can't see you, you have Advan-tage on attack rolls against it.
If you are hidden when you make an attack roll, you give away your location when the attack hits or misses.


cover. only the most protective degree of cover ap· plies; the degrees aren't added together. For exam· pie, if a target is behind a creature that gives Half Cover and a tree trunk that gives Three-Quarters Cover, the target hasThree-Quarters Cover.

COVER
Degree	Benefit to Target	Offered By ...
Half		+2 bonus to AC	 Another creature or an and Dexterity	object that covers at saving throws	 least half of the target
Three-	+S bonus to AC	An object that covers Quarters and Dexterity		at least three-quarters saving throws	of the target
Total	Can't be targeted An object that covers directly	the whole target

RANGED ATTACKS
When you make a ranged attack, you fire a bow, hurl an axe, or otherwise send projectiles to strikea foe at a distance. Many spells also involve making a ranged attack.
RANGE
You can make ranged attacks only against targets within a specified range.!fa ranged attack, such as one made with a spell, hasa single range, you can't attack a target beyond this range.
Some ranged attacks, such as those made with a Longbow, have two ranges. The smaller number is the normal range, and the larger number is the long ra11ge. Your attack roll has Disadvantage when your target is beyond normal range, and you can't attack a target beyond long range.
RANGED ATTACKS IN CLOSE COMBAT
Aiming a ranged attack is more difficult when a foe is next to you. When you make a ranged attack roll with a weapon, a spell, or some other means, you have Disadvantage on the roll if you are within 5 feet of an enemy who can see you and doesn't have the Incapacitated condition (see the rules glossary).
MELEE ATTACKS
A melee attack allows you to attack a target within your reach. A melee attack typically uses a hand· held weapon or an Unarmed Strike. Many monsters make melee attacks with claws, teeth, or other body parts. A few spells also involve melee attacks.
REACH
A creature has a 5-foot reach and can thus attack targets within 5 feet when making a melee attack. Certain creatures have melee attacks with a reach greater than 5 feet, as noted in their descriptions.
OPPORTUNITY ATTACKS
Combatants watch for enemies to drop their guard. If you move heedlessly past your foes, you put your· self in danger by provoking an Opportunity Attack. Avoiding Opportunity Attacks. You can avoid pro· voking an Opportunity Attack by taking the Disen· gage action. You also don't provoke an Opportunity
Attack when you Teleport or when you are moved without using your movement, action, Bonus Ac· tion, or Reaction. For example, you don't provoke an Opportunity Attack if an explosion hurls you out of a foe's reach or if you fall past an enemy.
Making an Opportunity Attack. You can make an Opportunity Attack when a creature that you can see leaves your reach. To make the attack, take a Reaction to make one melee attack with a weapon or an Unarmed Strike against that creature. The attack occurs right before it leaves your reach.
MOUNTED COMBAT
Awilling creature that is at least one size larger than a rider and that hasan appropriate anatomy can serve as a mount, using the following rules.
MOUNTING AND DISMOUNTING
During your move. you can mount a creature that is within 5 feet of you or dismount. Doingso costs an amount of movement equal to half your Speed (round down). For example. if your Speed is 30 feet, youspend IS feet of movement to mount a horse.
CONTROLLING A MOUNT
You can control a mount only if it has been trained to accept a rider. Domesticated horses, mules. and similar creatures havesuch training.
The Initiative of a controlled mount changes to match yours when you mount it. It moves on your turn as you direct it, and it has only three action op· tions during that turn: Dash, Disengage, and Dodge. A controlled mount can move and act even on the tu,rn that you mount it.
In contrast, an independent mount-one that lets you ride but ignores your control-retains its place in the Initiative order and moves and acts as it likes.



26	CHAPTER I I PLAYING THŁ GAME


A ranged attack roll with a weapon underwater automatically misses a target beyond the weapon's normal range, and the attack roll has Disadvantage against a target within normal range.





























































AOYE,.,TURl'S UNO(RWATEQ.
•

FALL[NG OFF
If an effect is about to move your mount against its will while you're on it. you must succeed on a DC 10 Dexterity saving throw or fall off, landing with the Prone condition (see the rules glossary) in an unoc-cupied space within 5 feet of the mount.
While mounted, you must make the same save if you're knocked Prone or the mount is.
UNDERWATER COMBAT


A fight underwater follows these rules.
IMPEDED WEAPONS
When making a melee attack roll with a weapon underwater. a creature that lacks a Swim Speed has Disadvantage on the attack roll unless the weapon deals Piercing damage.
FIRE RESISTANCE
Anything underwater has Resistance to Fire dam-age (explained in "Damage and Healing").
DAMAGE AND HEALING
Injuryand death are frequent threats in D&D, as detailed in the following rules.
HIT POINTS
Hit Points represent durability and the will to live. Creatures with more Hit Points are more difficult to kill. Your Hit Point maximum is the number of Hit Points you have when uninjured. Your current Hit Points can be any number from that maximum down to 0, which is the lowest Hit Points can go.
Whenever you take damage, subtract it from your Hit Points. Hit Point loss has no effect on your capa-bilities until you reach O Hit Points.
If you have half your Hit Points or fewer, you're Bloodied, which has no game effect on its own but which might trigger other game effects.
DAMAGE ROLLS
Each weapon, spell, and damaging monster ability specifies the damage it deals. You roll the damage dice, add any modifiers, and deal the damage to your target. If there's a penalty to the damage, it's possible to deal O damage but not negative damage.
When attacking with a weapon, you add your ability modifier-the same modifier used for the at-tack roll-to the damage roll. Aspell tells you which dice to roll for damage and whether to add any modifiers. Unless a rulesays otherwise, you don't add your ability modifier to a fixed damage amount that does,l't use a roll,such as the damage of a Blowgun. See chapter 6 for weapons' damage dice and chapter 7 for spells' damage dice.
CRITICAL HITS
When you score a Critical Hit, you deal extra dam· age. Roll the attack's damage dice twice, add them together, and add any relevant modifiers as nor-mal. For example, if you score a Critical Hit with a

RESTING
Adventurers can't spend every hour adventuring. They need rest. Any creature can take hour-long Short Rests in the midst of a day and an 8-hour Long Rest to end it. Regaining Hit Points is one of the main benefits of a rest. The rules glossary provides the rules for Short and Long Rests.
CHAPTER I I PLAY INC THE'. GAME	27
Dagger, roll 2d4 for the damage rather than ld4, and add your relevant ability modifier. If the attack in-volves other damage dice, such as From the Rogue's Sneak Attack feature, you also roll those dice twice.
?AVI?G TuROWS AND DAMAgE
Damage dealt via saving throws uses these rules.
DAMAGE ACAINST MULTIPLE TARGETS
When you create a damaging effect that forces two or more targets to makesaving throws against it at the same time, roll the damage once for all the tar-gets. For example, when a wizard casts Fireball, the spell's damage is rolled once for all creatures caught in the blast.
HALF DAMAGE
Manysaving throw effects deal half damage (round down) to a target when the target succeeds on the saving throw. The halved damage is equal to half the damage that would be dealt on a failed save.
DAMAGE TYPES
Each instance of damage has a type, like Fire or Slashing. Damage types are ljsted in the rules glos-sary and have no rules of their own, but other rules, such as Resistance, rely on damage types.
RESISTANCE AND VULNERABILITY
Some creatures and objects have Resistance or Vulnerability to certain damage types. If you have Resistance to a damage type, damage of that type is halved against you (round down). If you have
Vulnerability to a damage type. damage of that type is doubled against you. For example, if you have Resistance to Cold damage, such damage is halved against you, and if you have Vulnerability to Fire damage, such damage is doubled against you.
No STACKING
Multiple instances of Resistance or Vulnerability that affect the same damage type count as only one instance. For example, if you have Resistance to Ne-crotic damage as well as Resistance to all damage, Necrotic damage is reduced by half against you.
ORDER OF APPLICATION
Modifiers to damage are applied in the following order: adjustments such as bonuses, penalties, or multipliers are applied first; Resistance is applied second; and Vulnerability is applied third.
For example, a creature has Resistance to all damage and Vulnerability to Firedamage, and it's within a magical aura that reduces all damage by
5. If it takes 28 Fire damage, the damage is first reduced by 5 (to 23). then halved for the creature's Resistance (and rounded dowa to 11), then doubled for its Vulnerability (to 22).
IMMUNI-TY-------
Some creatures and objects have Immunity to cer-tain damage types and conditions. Immunity to a damage type means you don't take damage of that type, and Immunity to a condition means you aren't affected by it.
HEALING				
Hit Points can be restored by magic, such as the CureWounds spell or a Potion of Healing, or by a Short or Long Rest (see the rules glossary).
When you receive healing, add the restored Hit Points to your cur,·ent Hit Points. Your Hit Points can't exceed your Hit Point maximum, so any Hit Points regained in excess of the maximum are lost. For example, if you receive 8 Hit Points of healing and have 14 Hit Points and a Hit Point maximum of 20, you regain 6 Hit Points, not 8.
DROPPING TO O HIT	POINTS
When a creature drops to O Rit Points, it either dies outright or falls unconscious. as explained below.
fNSTANT DEATH
Here are the main ways a creatu1·e caa die instantly.
Monster Death. A monster dies the instant it drops to O Hit Points, although a Dungeon Master can ig-nore this rulefor an individual monster and treat it like a character.
Hit Point Maximum of 0. A creature dies if its Hit Point maximum reaches 0. Certain effects drain life energy, reducing a creature's Hit Point maximum.
Massive Damage. When damage reduces a charac-ter to O Hit Points and damage remains, the char-acter dies if the remainder equals or exceeds their Hit Point maximum. For example, if your character bas a Hit Point maximum of12, currently has 6 Hit Points, and takes18 damage, the character drops to 0 Hit Points, but 12 damage remains. The character then dies, since 12 equals their Hit Point maximum.
CHARACTER DEMISE
If your character dies, others might find a magical way to revive your character, such as with the Raise Dead spell. Or talk with the OM about making a new character to join the group. The rules glossary has more information on beingdead.
FALLING UNCONSCIOUS
If you reach O Hit Points and don't die instantly, you have the Unconscious condition (see the rules glos-sary) untilyou regain any Hit Points, and you n.ow face making Death Saving Throws (see below).
DEATH SAVING THROWS
Whenever you start your turn with O Hit Points, you must make a Death Saving Throw to determine whether you creep closer to death or hangon to life.

28	CHAPTER I I PLAYING THE GAME

KNOCKINC OUT A CREATURE
When you would reduce a creature to O Hit Points with a melee attack, you can instead reduce the creature to l Hit Point and give it the Uncon• scious condition. It then starts a Short Rest, at the end of which that condition ends on it. The condition ends early if thecreature regains any Hit Points or if someone takes an action to ad-minister first aid to it, making a successful DC 10 Wisdom (Medicine) check.


Unlike other saving throws, thisone isn't tied to an ability score. You're in the hands of fate now.
Three Successes/Failures. Roll ld2O. If the roll is JO or higher, you succeed. Otherwise, you fail. Asuc-cessor failure has no effect by itself. On your third success, you become Stable (see "Stabilizing a Char-acter" below). On your third failure, you die.
The successes and failures don't need to be con-secutive; keep track of both until you collect three of a kind.The number of both is reset to zero when you regain any Hit Points or become Stable.
Rollinga I or 20. When you roll a I on the d2O for a Death Saving Throw, you suffer two failures. If
TuEY DON'T STACK
Temporary Hit Points can't be added together. If you have Temporary Hit Points and receive more of them, you decide whether to keep the ones you have or to gain the new ones. For example, if a spell grants you 12 Temporary Hit Points when you al· ready have10, you can have12 or JO, not 22.
TuEY'RE NOT HtT POINTS OR HEALING
Temporary Hit Points can't be added to your Hit Points, healingcan't restore them, and receiving Temporary Hit Points doesn't count as healing. Because Temporary Hit Points aren't Hit Points, a creature can be at full Hit Points and receive Tem-porary Hit Points.
If you have O Hit Points, receivingTemporary Hit Points doesn't restore you to consciousness.Only true healing can save you.
CONDITIONS
Many effects impose a condition. a temporary state that alters the recipient's capabilities. The following conditions are deflne.d in the rulesglossary:
Blinded	Grappled	Poisoned
you roll a 20 on the d2O, you regain I Hit Point.
Damage at O Hit Points. If you take any damage while you have O Hit Points, you suffer a Death Sav-
ing Throw failure. If the damage is from a Critical
Charmed Deafened Exhaustion
Incapacitated	Prone
Invisible	Restrained
Paralyzed	Stunned
Hit, you suffer two failures instead. If the damage equals or exceeds you.r Hit Point maximum, you die.
STABILIZING A CHARACTER
You can take the Help action to try to stabilize a creature with O Hit Points. which requires a suc-cessful DC JO Wisdom (Medicine) check.
AStable creature doesn't make Death Saving Throws even though it has O Hit Points, but it still has the Unconscious condition. If the creature takes damage, it stops beingStable and starts making Death Saving Throws again. A Stable creature that isn't healed regafos I Hit Point after ld4 hours.
TEMPORARY HIT POlNTS
Some spells and other effects confer Temporary Hit Points. which are a buffer against losing actual Hit Points, as explained below.
LOSE TEMPORARY HIT POINTS FIRST
If you have Temporary Hit Points and take damage, those points are lost fi.rst. and any leftover damage carries over to your Hit Points. For example, if you have 5 Temporary Hit Points and take 7 damage, you lose those points and then lose 2 Hit Points.
DURATION
Temporary Hit Points last until they're depleted or you finish a Long Rest (see the rulesglossary).
Frightened	Petrified	Unconscious
The definition of a condition specifies what happens to its recipient while affected by it, and some condi-tions apply other conditions.
DURATION
A cond.ition lasts either for a duration specified by the effect that imposed the condition or until the condition is countered (the Prone condition is coun-tered bystanding up, for example).
No STACKlNO
If multiple effects impose the same condition on you, each instance of the condition has its own du-ration, but the condition's effects don't get worse. Either you have a condition or you don't.The Ex-haustion condition is an exception; its effects get worse if you have the condition and receive it again.
COMBAT AND
DAMAGE EXAMPLE
In thisscene, threats force a group of adventur• ers into battle. This example demonstrates the turn-based flow of combat that gives each playe.r a chance to detail what theydo during the high-stakes moments of a fight.
CHAPTER 1 I PLAYi NO THE GAME	29

Below Castle Raven/oft, the characters enter combat!

Jared (as OM): Yellow lichen covers the ceiling in this passage, which has alcoves along both sides.
Russell (as Shreeve): I peer into the nearest alcoves. Jared: They each contain human skeletal remains.
A	The silence is broken suddenly by the rattle of
V	bones as the skeletons lurch to their feet all around you and prepare to attack!
Russell: Ack! How many skeletons?
0  Jared: Ten in all, and they're hostile. Roll Initiative!
Russell: Ten skeletons? Yikes! I got a 16. Maeve (as Mirabella): I got 8.
Phillip (as Gareth): An incredible 2 for Gareth.
Amy (as Auro): I got a 19!
Jared: The Rogue is quick to react-but not as quick as the skeletons! They got a 20. The first four attack the person in the lead: Shreeve.
Russell: Oh, boy.
Jared: Their attack roll totals are 8, 16, 18, and 20.
?	Russell: The 8 and 16 miss my AC, but the others hit.
W Jared: Two of them stick you with their broken blades, dealing a total of 9 Piercing damage.
Russell: Is that the best you can do? Phillip: Never say that to the OM.
Jared: Heh. Now two of them attack Auro. The first roll is a natural 1: a miss. The second roll is 16.
Amy: That hits.
Jared: You take 4 Piercing damage, and one of them attacks Mirabella with a roll of 14.
a) Maeve: Hits. No, wait! I cast Shield, so that misses.
Jared: The skeleton's blade bounces off your shield of magical force. Then two of them attack Gareth. One misses with a 5, but the other one lands a solid blow with a 21, dealing 7 piercing damage.
Phillip: That got my attention!
Jared: That's nine attacks. There's one more skeleton at the end of the hall. It moves up and waits for an opening. Now it's Auro's turn.
Amy: I attack one close to me. Does a 24 hit?
Jared: A solid hit!
Amy: And it's next to one of my allies, right? Jared: Yes.
0	Amy: So with my Sneak Attack, that's 22 damage!
Jared: Your blade slides into an empty eye socket, and the skeleton clatters to the ground, now inani-mate and harmless.
?	Amy: Then I use Cunning Action to Disengage as a
W	Bonus Action and move 20 feet out of the melee.
Jared: Very good. Shreeve?
Russell: I drop my sword and pull out my warham-
$	mer. Time to break some bones! My first attack is a 21 to hit for 7 Bludgeoning damage.



0	,:----=====---==?








Spells and Reactions. Mirabella casts the Shield spell. It's aspecial property of this spell that it can be cast even when it's not thecaster's turn, using her Reaction (see "Actions" earlier in this chapter).

0rF==	,,,===?

Special Abilities. Auro's Sneak Attack lets him deal extra damage to the skeletons, and his Cunning Action lets him Disengage as a Bonus Action. These are examples of class features (described in chapter 3) that let characters bend the rules.



30	CHAPTER I I PLAY INC THE GAME

Jared: It tries to block your swing, but the force of your blow destroys the skeleton!
Russell: I swing at the next skeleton with 11 to hit. Jared: The skeleton dodges out of the way.
Russell: Rats. That's my turn. Jared: Mirabella?
4) Maeve: How many can I get in a 15-foot Cube? Jared: Three if you don't want to get Shreeve too.
Maeve:That's probably best. I cast Thunderwave at those three, using a level 2 spell slot. So there's a loud boom, and a wave of thunderous force
˘,	sweeps over the skeletons. They need to make DC
l S Constitution saves.
Jared: They all fail!
Maeve: Because I used a level 2 slot, that's 1S Thun-der damage, and they're pushed 10 feet away.
Jared: They're pushed back and shattered.
Maeve: Excellent! Four down, six to go. Jared: And it's Gareth's turn at last!
Phillip: How many of them are within 30 feet of me? Jared: All six.
Phillip: I hold up my Holy Symbol and ask Pelor the
f> Holy Sun to sear these skeletons. They need to make DC l S Wisdom saves.
Jared (rolling): Oh, those are not good numbers. None of them even got close.
Phillip: They each take 18 Radiant damage and-
Jared: Never mind the "and." Pelor does indeed smite these skeletons!They're silhouetted for a moment in a burst of brilliant light, then they van-ish, leaving only their broken swords behind.
EtrF========?

CHAPTER I I PLAYi NC TH.E GAME	31

CHAPTER 2
CREATING A CHARACTER


OU CAN MAKE A CHARACTER FOR
DUNGEONS & DRAGONS using the build-ing blocks io this book. Your character is a
combination of game statistics, roleplaying hooks, and your imagination. You choose a class (such as Fighter or Wizard), a background (such as Sajlor or Acolyte), and a species (such as Human or Ell). You also invent the personality and appearance of your character. Once completed, your character serves as your avat.ar in the D&D multiverse.
GET READY
Before you dive into character creation, there are a few things to do to get ready, as explained below.
TALK WITH YOUR DM
Start by talking with your Dungeon Master about the type of D&D game they plan to run. If the DM draws inspiration from Greek myth, for example, you might choose a different direction for your character than if the OM is planning for swash· buckling on the high seas. Think about the kind of adventurer you want to play in this game. If you don't know where to begin, look at the character illustrations in this book for inspiration.
CHOOSE A CHARACTER SHEET
You'll record the main details of your character on a character sheet. Throughout this chapter, we use the term "character sheet" to mean whatever you use to track your character's details, whether it's a printed character sheet (like the one shown on the following pages), a digital character sheet like the one on D&D Beyond, or plain paper. Choose which-ever style of sheet works for you, and then embark on creating a character!

SESSION ZERO
Some Dungeon Masters start a campaign with a "session zero," an initial gathering focused on creating characters and settingexpectations, including topics to avoid as well as those to embrace. A session zero provides a great oppor-tunity to talk to the other players and the DM and decide whether your characters know one another, how they met, and what sorts of quests the group might undertake together.

CREATE YOUR CHARACTER
Here are the steps to make a character; each step is explored in detail in this chapter:
1: Choose a Class. Every adventurer is a member of a class. A class broadly describes a character's vocation, special talents, and Favored tactics.
2: Determi.oe Origin. A character's origin includes two elements: background and species. How did the character spend the years leading up to a life of adventure? Who are the character's ancestors? You can also choose your character's languages.
3: Determine Ability Scores. Much of what your character does in the game depends on the char-acter'ssix abilities.
4: Choose an Alignment. Alignment is a shorthand for your character's moral compass.
5: Fill in Details. Using the choices you've made, fill in the remaining details on your character sheet.
On the character sheet on the following pages, many spaces are labeled with a number that corre· sponds with one of those steps.
STEP I: CHOOSE A CLASS
Choose a class, and write it on your character sheet. The Class Overview tablesummarizes the classes. See chapter 3 for the classes' details.

CLASS OVERVIEW
Class	Likes ...	 Primary Ability Complexity Barbarian Battle	Strength	Average Bard	 Performing Charisma	 High
Cleric	Gods	Wisdom	Average Druid	 Nature	Wisdom	 High Fighter	 Weapons	 Strength	 Low
or Dexterity
Monk		Unarmed	 Dexterity	High combat	and Wisdom
Paladin	Defense	Strength	Average
and Charisma
Ranger	Survival	Dexterity	Average
and Wisdom
Rogue	 Stealth	 Dexterity	 Low Sorcerer		Power	 Charisma	 High Warlock	 Occult lore	Charisma	 High Wizard	Spellbooks	 Intelligence	Average
CHAPTER 2 I CREATl!-lG A CHARACTER	33





BACl<CROUNO
0
SPECIES





CLASS
0
SUBCLASS

ARMOR CLASS

HIT POINTS



TEMP
0
MAX

HIT DICE



SPENT
0
MAX



???
FAILURCS
}=			_
•,
PROFICIENCY BONUS



PASSIVE PERCEPTION





0		S>vingTlvow
0  V	Atnna 0
0	History
0	lrwestlg;nion
0	Nature-
0	,.o	Religion
0
0	WEAPONS & DAMACE CANTRIPS















,,	0	CLASS FEATURES









?? CONSTITUTION \..:	,,	,
0:)	? :ARISMA	?

\   MOD>FOER SCOR[  /
oO Savlnglh,o,w
0:)
I\  MOOlflU	J
0	SavinaThrow
•
-		HEROIC INSPIRATION
It--.?----  - 
0V  OtccpUoo
0	lntimldatlon
0	Puformance
0	Penuasfon


EQUIPMENT TRAININC & PROFICIENCIES	"
ARMOR	?light ?Medium ? Heavy ? Shtelds
TRAINING
WEAPONS
TOOLS

    • 



34	CHAPTER 2 I CREATING A CHARACTER






















































































































?)(9$00000,fN
CHAPTER 2 I CREATINC A CHARACTER	35
A BALANCED PARTY
The classic D&D party comprises a Cleric, Fighter, Rogue, and Wizard. Those four classes have the longest history in the game, but more importantly, they bringa balanced mix of capa• bilities to adventures. You're welcome to use that party setup or modify it using these guidelines:
Cleric. Replace with Bard or Druid
Fighter. Replace with Barbarian, Monk, Paladin,
The background you choose inAuences step 3, when you determine your character's ability scores. 1f you're having trouble choosing, the Ability Scores and Backgrounds table shows which backgrounds benefit which ability scores. Look for your class's primary ability there.

ABILITY SCORES AND BACKGROUNDS
Ability	Backgrounds
or Ranger
Rogue. Replace with Bard or Ranger
Wizard. Replace with Bard, Sorcerer, or Warlock

WRITE YOUR LEVEL
Strength Dexterity
Artisan, Entertainer, Farmer, Guard, Noble, Sailor, Soldier
Artisan, Charlatan, Criminal, Entertainer, Guide, Sailor, Scribe, Soldier, Wayfarer
Write your character's level on your character sheet. Typically, a character starts at level land advances in level byadventuring and gaining Expe-rience Points (XP).
Write Your XP. Also record your Experience
Constitution Charlatan, Criminal, Farmer, Guide, Hermit, Merchant, Sage, Soldier
Intelligence Acolyte, Artisan, Criminal, Guard, Merchant, Noble, Sage, Scribe
Points. A level I character has OXP.
Starting at a Higher Level. Your DM might start you at a higher level. If you start at level 3 or higher, write your chosen subclass on your character sheet. See the "Starting at Higher Levels"section later in
Wisdom Charisma
Acolyte, Farmer, Guard, Guide, Hermit, Sage, Sailor, Scribe, Wayfarer
Acolyte, Charlatan, Entertainer, Hermit, Merchant, Noble, Wayfarer
the chapter for more information.
NOTE ARMOR TRAINING
Your class might give you training with certain categories of armor. Note your armor training on your character sheet.Armor training with a kind of armor means you can wear that armor effectively, gaining defensive bonuses from it. The categories of armor are described in chapter 6.
HOLD ThATTuOUGHT
You'll fill in more details about your class later. Choosing your class is the most important decision you make in creating a character, and it informs many of the decisions you make in later steps. You'll return to your class's description in chapter 3 sev· eral more times before you're done.
?TEP 2: DETERMINE ORIGIN
Determining your character's origin involves choos-ing a background, a species, and two languages.
A character's background represents the place and occupation that were most formative for the character. The combination of background, species, and languages provides fertile soil for your imagina-tion as you ponder your character's earliest days.
CHOOSE A BACKGROUND
Choose your character's background, and write it on your character sheet. You can choose any of the backgrounds detailed in chapter 4, and your DM might offer additional backgrounds as options.
Record Your Feat. A background gives you a feat, which grants your character particular capabilities. Feats are detailed in chapter 5. Write the feat on your character sheet.
Note Proficiencies. Your background gives profi-ciency in twoskills and with one tool. Record this information on your character sheet.
Your class also gives proficiencies, Check your class description in chapter 3 and note the proficien-cies on your character sheet.
On the sample character sheet, you can indicate proficiency in skills and saving throws by marking the circle next to them.
The features table in your class description shows your Proficiency Bonus (described in chapter 1), which is +2 for a level l character. Note this number on your character sheet. You'll fill in other numbers connected to these proficiencies in step 5.
CHOOSE STARTING EQ.UIPMENT
Your background and class both provide starting equipment. Any coins that you gain at this step can be immediately spent on equipment from chapter 6. In addition, youcan have one trinket at no cost (see the Trinkets table at tbe end of this chapter).
Record your chosen equipment on your character sheet. Equipment is described in chapter 6, but for now you can just write it all down and look up the specifics in that chapter later. There's also space on the sample character sheet to note any coins you have left:after purchasing your equipment, as well as treasure you acquire on your adventures.


36	CHAPTER 2 I CREATING A CHARACTER

CHOOSE A SPECIES
Choose a species for your character. The following species options are detailed in chapter 4: Aasimar, Dragonborn, Dwarf, Elf, Gnome, Goliath, HalAing, Human, Ore, and Tiefling. Once you've chosen a species, write it on your character sheet. Then re-cord your species' traits.
Your character's size and Speed are determined by the character's species; record these in the appropri-ate places on your character sheet as well (you may write just the first letter of your size).
IMAGINE YOUR PAST AND PRESENT
Let your character's background and species inspire how you imagine their past.That past fed into the character's present. With that in mind, consider an-swers to the following questions as your character:
Who raised you?
Who was your dearest childhood friend? Did you grow up with a pet?
Have you fallen in love? If so, with whom?
Did you join an organization. such as a guild or religion? If so, a re you still a member of it?
    • What elements of your past inspire you to go on adventures now?
CHOOSE LANGUAGES
Your character knows at least three languages: Common plus two languages you roll or choose from the Standard Languages table. Knowledge of a language means your character can communicate in it, read it, and write it. Your class and other features might also give you languages.
The Standard Languages table lists languages that are widespread on D&D worlds. Every player character knows Common, which originated in the planar metropolis of Sigil, the hub of the multiverse. The other standard languages originated with the first members of the most prominent species in the worlds of D&D and have sincespread widely.

















































C0Ns1otq, How vouA CMOICIS COMIIN[ TO Sf.T VOUR C.HAR/\CtER OH TME PATH TO A.Ov(HTU1U,









The Rare Languages table lists languages that are eithersecret or derived from other planes of exis-tence and thus less widespread in the worlds of the Material Plane. Some features let a character learn a rare language.
STANDARD LANCUACES
ld12	Language	Origin
Common	Sigil
    1 Common Sign Language	Sigil
    2 Draeonie	Dragons
3-4 Dwarvish	Dwarves
        5-6 Elvish	Elves
            7 Giant	Giants
            8 Gnomish	Gnomes
            9 Goblin	Goblinoids
10-11  HalAing	HalAings
RARE LANCUACES
Language Abyssal Celestial Deep Speech Druidic Infernal Primordial* Sylvan Thieves· Cant
Undereommon


Origin
Demons of the Abyss Celestials Aberrations
Druidic circles
Devils of the Nine Hells Elementals
The Feywild
Various criminal guilds The Underdark
12	Ore	Ores
    • Primordial includes theAquan, Auran, lgnan, and Terran dialects. Creatures that know one of these dialectscan communicate with 1hose that lcnow a different one.
CHAPTER '2 I CREATING A CHARACTER	37
STEP 3: DETERMINE ABILITY SCORES
To determine your character's ability scores, you first generate a set of six numbers using the instruc-tions below and then assign them to your sixabili-ties. Chapter l explains what each ability means.
GENERATE YOUR SCORES
Determfoe your ability sco,·es by using one of the following three methods. Your OM might prefer you to use a particular one.
Standard Array. Use the followingsix scores for your abilities: 15, 14, 13, 12, 10.8.
Random Generation. Roll four d6s and record the total of the highest three dice. Do this five more times, so you have six numbers.
Point Cost. You have 27 points to spend on yow· abilityscores. The cost of each score is shown on the Ability Score Polnt Costs table. For example, a score of 14 costs 7 of your 27 points.
ABILITY SCORE POINT COSTS

Score	Cost	Score	Cost
8	0	12	4
9	1	13	5
10	2	14	7
11	3	15	9

ASSIGN ABILITY SCORES
Once you've generated six scores. assign them to Strength, Dexterity, Constitution, Intelligence, Wis-dom, and Charisma, keeping in mind your class's primary ability. Fill in the ability modifiers as well.
If you're using the Standard Array option, consult the Standard Array by Class table for suggestions on where to assign scores for your character's class. The table puts the highest scores in a class's main abilities. If you used a dilferent method to gener-ate the scores, you may still use this table to guide where you place your highest and lowest scores.


BACKGROUNDS AND SPECIES FROM OLDER BOOKS
Backgrounds in older D&D books don't include ability score adjustments. If you're using a back• ground from an older book. adjust your ability scores by increasing one score by 2 and a differ-ent one by 1, or increase three scores by 1. None of these increases can raise a score above 20.
Similarly, species in older books include ability
score increases. If you're using a species from an older book, Ignore those increases and use only the ones given by your background.
Also, if the background you choose doesn't pro• vide a feat, you gain an Origin feat of your choice.
STANDARD ARRAY BY CLASS

Class	Str.	De.x.	Con.	Int.	Wis.	Cha.
Barbarian	15	13	14	10	12	8
Bard	8	14	12	13	10	15
Cleric	14	8	13	10	15	12
Druid	8	12	14	13	15	10
Fighter	15	14	13	8	10	12
Monk	12	15	13	10	14	8
Paladin	15	10	13	8	12	14
Ranger	12	15	13	8	14	10
Rogue	12	15	13	14	10	8
Sorcerer	10	13	14	8	12	15
Warlock	8	14	13	12	10	15
Wizard	8	12	13	15	14	10

ADJ UST ABILITY SCORES
A?er assigning your ability scores, adjust them ac-cording to your background. Your background lists three abilities; increase one of those scores by 2 and a different one by J, or increase all three by1. None of these increases can raise a score above 20.
Some players like to increase their class's primary ability, while others prefer to increase a low score.
DETERMINE ABIUTY MODIFIERS
Finally, determine your ability modifiers using the Ability Scores and Modifiers table. Write the modi-fier next to each of your scores.

ABILITY SCORES AND MODIFIERS

Score	Modifier	Score	Modifier
3	-4	12-13	+1
4-5	-3	14-15	+2
6-7	-2	16-17	+3
8-9	-1	18-19	+4
10-11	+0	20	+5

DESCRIBE APPEARANCE AND PERSONALITY
Ability scores are an essential part of the rules, but they can be more than that. Once you've assigned your abilityscores, give some thought to what those scores mightsay about your character's appearance and personality. A verystrong character with low Charisma might look and behave differently from a charismatic character with low Strength. The fol-lowing tables of descriptive words give suggestions of how you might describe your character based on havinga high or low score in an ability.
Note your character's appearance and personality on your character sheet.





38	CHAPTER 2 I CREATING A CHARACTER
A STRENGTH
STEP 4: CHOOSE AN ALIGNMENT
Choose your character's alignment from the options below. and note it on your character sheet.
0&D assumes that player characters aren't of an evil alignment. Check with your OM before making an evil character.
TuE  NrNE ALIGNMENTS
DEXTERITY	A creature's alignment broadly describes its ethical attitudes and ideals. Alignment is a combination of two factors: one identifies morality (good, evil, or
Lithe
2	Dynamic



CONSTITUTION


?
    1 Jittery	neutral), and the other describes attitudes toward
    2 Clumsy	order (lawful, chaotic, or neutral).
The summaries of the alignments below describe the typical behavior of a creature with that align· ment; individuals can vary from that behavior.
Lawful Good (LG). Lawful Good creatures en· deavor to do the right thing as expected bysociety. Someone who fights injustice and protects the inno· cent without hesitation is probably Lawful Good.
Neutral Good (NG). Neutral Good creatures do the best they can, working within rules but not feeling bound by them. A kindly person who helps others according to their needs is probably Neutral Good.
Chaotic Good (CG). Chaotic Good creatures act as
INTELLIGENCE	their conscience directs with little regard for what
ld4 High Int.	ld4 Low Int.	others expect. A rebel who waylays a cruel baron's
        1 Decisive
        2 Logical
        3 Informative
        4 Curious

WISDOM



?
tax collectors and uses the stolen money to help the poor is probably Chaotic Good.
    2 Illogical	Lawful Neutral (LN). Lawful Neutral individuals
    3 Uninformed	act in accordance with law, tradition, or personal
    4 Frivolous	codes. Someone who follows a disciplined rule of
life-and isn't swayed either by the demands of
those in need or by tbe temptations of evil-is prob· ably Lawful Neutral.
Neutral (N). Neutral is the alignment of those who prefer to avoid moral questions and don't take sides, doing whatseems best at the time.Someone who's bored by moral debate is probably Neutral.
Chaotic Neutral (CN). Chaotic Neutral creatures follow their whims, valuing their personal freedom above all else. A scoundrel who wanders the land
CHARISMA	living by their wits is probably Chaotic Neutral.
Lawful Evil (LE). La,,rful Evil creatures method· ically take what they want within the limits of a
?	code of tradition, loyalty, or order. An aristocrat ex-
ploiting citizens while scheming for power is proba·
bly Lawful Evil.
Neutral Evil (NE). Neutral Evil is the alignment of those who are untroubled by the harm they cause as
		they pursue their desires. A criminal who robs and
UNALIGNED CREATURES	murders as they please is probably Neutral Evil.
Most creatures that lack the capacity for rational	Chaotic Evil (CB). Chaotic Evil creatures act ,_.ith
arbitrary violence, spurred by their hatred or blood·
lust. A villain pursuing schemes of vengeance and havoc is probably Chaotic Evil.
CHAPTER 2 I CREATING A CHARACTER	39

i!ffiM??e	idfhlliffi#	C•,if.llli@•	STEP 5: FILL IN DETAILS
Now fill in the rest of your character sheet.
RECORD CLASS FEATURES
Look at your class's feature table in chapter 3, and write down thelevel 1features.The class features are detailed in that same chapter.
Some class features offer choices. Make sure to read all your features and make any offered choices.
FILL IN NUM13ERS
Note these numbers on your character sheet.
Saving Throws. For the saving throws you have proficiency in, add your Proficiency Bonus to the appropriate abiHty modifier and note the total.
Some players also like to note the modifier for sav-ing throws they're not proficient in, which is just the relevant ability modifier.
Skills. For skills you have proficiency in, add your
Proficiency Bonus to the ability modifier associated with that skill, and note the total. You might also wish to note the modifier for skills you're not profi-cient in, which is just the relevant ability modifier.
ALIGNMENTS MtCi14T ., YISUA\.llEO •s A CilUO LU(E nus-
ALONG WITW CREATURES TMl\1' IMIODV THOSŁ A\.IGNMfNTS


ALIGNMENT AND PERSONALITY
Alignment can shape a character's personality, goals, and core beliefs. Looking at the two elements of an alignment, you can use the lists below to in-spire details of your character's personality.

PERSONALITY TRAITS BY ALICNMENT
Alignment	1d4	Associated Trait
Passive Perception. Sometimes your OM will de-
termine whether your character notices something without asking you to make a Wisdom (Perception) check; the OM uses your Passive Perception instead. Passive Perception is a score that reflects a general awareness of your surroundings when you're not
actively looking for something. Use this formula to determine your Passive Perception score:
Passive Perception• 10 + Wisdom (Perception) check modifier
Chaotic



Good
    1 Boastful
    2 Impulsive
    3 Rebellious
    4 Self-absorbed
    1 Compassionate
    2 Helpful
    3 Honest
    4 Kind
Include all modifiers that apply to your Wisdom (Perception) checks. For example, if your character has a Wisdom of 15 and proficiency in the Percep· tion skill, you have a Passive Perception of 14 (10 + 2
for your Wisdom modifier+2 for proficiency).
Hit Points. Your class and Constitution modifier determine your Hit Point maximum at level 1, as shown on the Level I Hit Points by Class table.

LEVEL 1 HIT POINTS BY CLASS
Evil



lawful
    1 Dishonest
    2 Vengeful
    3 Cruel
    4 Greedy
    1 Cooperative
    2 loyal
    3 Judgmental
Class Barbarian
Fighter, Paladin, or Ranger
Bard, Cleric, Druid, Monk, Rogue, or Warlock
Sorcerer or Wizard
Hit Point Maximum 12 + Con. modifier 10 +Con.modifier 8 + Con. modifier

6 + Con. modifier

Neutral
    4 Methodical
    1 Selfish
    2 Disinterested
    3 Laconic
    4 Pragmatic
The character sheet includes room to note your current Hit Points when you take damage, as well as any Temporary Hit Points you might gain. There's also space to track Death Saving Throws.


40	CHAPTER 2 I CREATINC A CHARACTER
Hit Point Dice. Your class's description tells you the die type of your character's Hit Point Dice (or Hit Dice for short); write this on your character sheet. At level I, your character has l Hit Die. You can spend Hit Dice duringa Short Rest to recover Hit Points. Your character sheet also includes space to note how many Hit Diceyou've spent.
fnitiative. Write your Dexterity modifier in the space for Initiative on your character sheet.
Armor Class. Without armor or a shield, your base Armor Class is 10 plus your Dexterity modifier. If your starting equjpment includes armor or a Shield (or both), calculate your AC using the rules in chap· ter 6. A class feature might give you a different way to calculate your AC.
Attacks. In the Weapons & Damage Cantrips
section of the character sheet, write your starting weapons. The attack roll bonus for a weapon with which you have proficiency is ooe of the following uoless a weapon's property says otherwise:
Melee attack bonus= Strength modifier
+ Proficiency Bonus
Ranged attack bonus= Dexterity modifier
+ Proficiency Bonus
Look up the damage and properties of your weap· ons in chapter 6. You add the same ability modifier you use for attacks with a weapon to your damage rolls with that weapon.
Spellcasting. Note both the saving throw DC for your spells and the attack bonus for attacks you make with them, using these formulas:
Spell save DC = 8 + spellcasting ability modifier
+ Proficiency Bonus
Spell attack bonus• spellcasting ability modifier
+ Proficiency Bonus
Your spellcasting ability modifier for a spell is de-termined by whatever featw·e gives you the ability to cast the spell.
Spell Slots, Cantrips, and Prepared Spells. If your classgives you the Spellcasting or Pact Magic fea· ture, your class features table shows the number of spell slots you have available, how many cantrips you know, and how many spells you can prepare. Choose your cantrips and prepared spells, and note them-along with your number of spell slots-on your character sheet.
NAME YOUR CHARACTER
Choose a name for your character, and write it on your character sheet. The name can be whatever you like. Was it the name of an ancestor? Does it have religious or other significance? Is it a name you chose for yourself?
CREATE FINAL DETAILS
As you finish creating your character, consider whether you'd like to make up any other details about the character. Here are the sorts of things you might ask yourself as the character:
    • What's your gender?
    • What person or people do you care most about?
    • What's your deepest fear?
    • On your adventures, will you seek knowledge, wealth, glory, enlightenment,justic·e, mercy, power, or somethingelse?
LEVEL ADVANCEMENT
While going on adventures, your character gains experience, represented by Experience Points (XP). A character who reaches a specified Experience Point total advances in capability. This advance-ment is called gaining a level.
The Character Advancement table lists the XP you need to advance to a level and the Proficiency Bonus for a character of that level. When your XP total equals or exceeds a number in the Experience Points column, you reach the corresponding level.

CHARACTER ADVANCEMENT

Level	Experience Points	Proficiency Bonus
	0	+2
2	300	+2
3	900	+2
4	2,700	+2
s	6,500	+3
6	14,000	+3
7	23,000	+3
8	34,000	+3
9	48,000	+4
10	64,000	+4
11	85,000	+4
12	100,000	+4
13	120,000	+S
14	140,000	+5
15	165,000	+5
16	195,000	+5
17	225,000	+6
18	265,000	+6
19	305,000	+6
20	355,000	+6





Ctl,\PTER 2 J CREATINC A CHARACTER	41





























GAINING A LEVEL
When you gain a level, follow these steps:
1: Choose a Class. Most characters advance in the same class. However, you might decide to gain a level in another class using the rules in the "Mui· ticlassing" section later in this chapter.
2: Adjust Hit Points and Hit Point Dice. Each time you gain a level, you gain an additional Hit Die. Roll that die, add your Constitution modifier to the roll, and add the total (minimum of 1) to your Hit Point maxjmum. Instead of rolling, you can use the fixed value shown in the Fixed Hit Points by Class table.
FIXED HIT POINTS BY CLASS





























3: Record New Class Features. Look at your class features table in chapter 3, and note the features you gain at your new level in that class. Make any choices offered bya new feature.
4: Adjust Proficiency Bonus. A character's Profi-ciency Bonus increases at certain levels, as shown in the Character Advancement table and your class features table in chapter 3. When your Pro• ficiency Bonus increases, increase all the num-bers on your character sheet that include your Proficiency Bonus.
5: Adjust Ability Modifiers. If you choose a feat that increases one or more of your abilityscores, your ability modifier also changes if the new score is an even number. When that happens, ad-just all the numbers on your character sheet that
Class Barbarian
Fighter, Paladin, or Ranger Bard, Cleric, Druid, Monk, Rogue, or Warlock
Sorcerer or Wizard
Hit Points per Level 7 + Con. modifier 6 + Con. modifier 5 + Con. modifier

4 +Con.modifier
use that ability modifier. When your Constitution modifier increases by I. your Hit Point maximum increases by I for each level you have attained.
For example. if a character reaches level 8 and increases their Constitution score from 17 to 18, the Constitution modifier increases to •4. The character's Hit Point maximum then increases by
8. in addition to the Hit Points gained for reach-ing level 8.






<f,2	CHAPTER 2 I CREATING A CHARACTER

BONUS FEATS AT LEVEL 20
A DM can use feats as a form of advancement after characters reach level 20 to provide greater power to characters who have no more levels to gain. With this approach, each character gains one feat of their choice for every 30,000 XP the character earns above 355,000 XP. Epic Boon feats are especially appropriate for these bonus feats, but a player can choose any feat for which their level 20 character qualifies.

TIERS OF PLAY
With each new level, characters acquire new ca-pabilities that equip them to handle greater chal-lenges. As characters advance io level, the tone of the game also changes, and the stakes of the cam-paign get higher. It's helpful to think of a character's (and a campaign's) arc in terms of four tiers of play, describing the journey from a level 1 character just beginning an adventuring career to the epic heights of level 20. These tiers don't have any rules associ· ated with them; they point to the fact that the play experience evolves as characters gain levels.
TIER 1 (LEVELS 1-4)
In tier 1. characters are apprentice adventurers, though they are already set apart from tbe broader populace by virtue of their extraordinary abilities. They learn their starting class features and choose a subclass. The threats they face usually pose a dan-ger to local farmsteads or villages.
TIER 2 (LEVELS 5-10)
In tier 2. characters are full-fledged adventurers. Spellcasters gain iconicspells such as Fireball, Light-ning Bolt,and Raise Dead. Most weapon-focused classes gain the ability to make multiple attacks
in a round. The characters now face dangers that threaten cities and kingdoms.
TIER 3 (LEVELS 11-16)
In tier 3, characters have reached a level of power that makes them special among adventurers. At level11, many spellcasters learn reality-altering spells. Other characters gain features that allow them to make more attacks or to do more impres· sive things with those attacks. These adventurers often confront threats to ,vhole regions.
TIER 4 (LEVELS 17-20)
At tier 4, characters achieve the pinnacle of their class features. becoming heroic archetypes. The fate of the world or even the order of the multiverse might hangin the balance during their adventures.
STARTING AT HIGHER LEVELS
Your DM might start your group's characters at a level higher than l. It is particularly recommended to start at level 3 if your group is composed of sea• soned D&D players.
CREATING YOUR CHARACTER
Creating a higher-level character uses the same character-creation steps outlined in this chapter and the rules for advancing beyond level I provided in the "Level Advancement" section. You begin with the minimum amount of XP required to reach your starting level. For example. if the DM starts you at level 10, you have 64,000 XP.
STARTING EQ.yIPMENT
The DM decides whether your character starts with more than the standard equipment for a level I character, possibly even one or more magic items. The Starting Equipment at Higher Levels table is a guide for the OM.
Also, check with your OM about what equipment is available for you to buy with your starting money. For example, the firearms described in chapter 6 are too expensive for level I characters, but they might be available for purchase if your OM allows them.

STARTING EQUIPMENT AT HIGHER LEVELS
Starting Level
2-4
5-10

11-16

17-20
Equipment and Money Normal starting equipment
500 GP plus ldlO x 25 GP plus normal starting equipment
5,000 gp plus ldlO x 250 GP plus normal starting equipment
20,000 GP plus ldlO x 250 GP plus normal starting equipment
Magic Items 1 Common
1 Common, 1 Uncommon

2 Common, 3 Uncommon, 1 Rare

2 Common, 4 Uncommon, 3 Rare, 1 Very Rare







CtlAPTER 2 I CREATING A CHARACTER	4t3
MULTICLASSING
Multiclassing allows you to gain levels in multiple classes. With this rule, you have the option of gain-ing a level in a new class whenever you advance in level instead of gaininga level io your current class. Doingso lets you mix the abilities of those classes to realize a character concept that might not be re-Aect.ed in a single class.
PREREQUISITES
To qualify for a new class, you must have a score of at least 13 in the primary abiljty of the new class and your current classes. For example, a Barbarian who decides to multiclass into the Druid class must have Strength and Wisdom scores of 13 or higher. since Streogth is the primary ability for Barbarians and Wisdom is the primary ability for Druids.
EXPERIENCE POINTS
TheExperience Point cost to gain a level is based on your total character level, not your level in a partic-ular class. as shown in the Character Advancement table in this chapter. For example, if you are a level 6 Cleric/ level l Fighter, you must gain enough XP to reach level 8 before you can take your second level as a Fighter or your seventh level as a Cleric.
HIT  POINTS AND HIT POINT DICE
You gain the Hit Points from your new class as described for levels after 1. You gain the level l Hit Points for a class only when your total character level is I.
Add together the Hit Dice granted by all your classes to form your pool of Hit Dice. If these dice are the same die type, you can pool them together. For example, both the Fighter and the Paladin have a dl0 Hit Die, so if you are a level 5 Fighter/ level 5 Paladin, you have ten d!0 Hit Dice. If your classes give you Hit Dice of different types, track them sep-arately. If you are a level 5 Cleric/ level 5 Paladin, for example, you have five d8 Hit Dice and five d!0 Hit Dice.
PROFICIENCY BONUS
Your Proficiency Bonus is based on your total char-acter level, not your level in a particular class. as shown in the Character Advancement table. For example, if you are a level 3 Fighter/ level 2 Rogue, you have the Proficiency Bonus of a !eve.I5 charac-ter, which is +3.
PROFICIENCIES
When you gain your first !eve.I in a class other than your initial class, you gain only some of the oew class's starting proficiencies, as detailed io each class's description in chapter 3.
CLASS FEATURES		
When you gain a new level in a class, you get its fea-tures for that level. A few features have additional rules when you're multiclassing.Check the infor-mation about multiclassing included in each of your classes' descriptions.
Special rules apply to Extra Attack, Spellcasting, and features (such as Unarmored Defense) that give you alternative ways to calculate your Armor Class.
ARMOR CLASS
If you have multiple ways to calculate your Armor Class. you can benefit from only one at a time. For example, a Monk/Sorcerer with a Monk's Unar· mored Defense feature and a Sorcerer's Draconic Resilience feature must choose only one of those features as a way to calculate Armor Class.
EXTRA ATTACK
If you gain the Extra Attack feature from more than one class. the features don't stack. You can't make more than two attacks with this feature unless you have a feature that says you can (such as the Fight-er's1\vo Extra Attacks feature).
Similarly, the Warlock's Thirsting Blade invoca· tion, which grants you the Extra Attack feature with your pact weapon, doesn't give you additional attacks if you also have Extra Attack.
SPELLCASTING
Your capacity for spellcasting depends partlyon your combined levels in all your spellcasting classes and partly on your individual levels in those classes. Once you have the Spellcasting feature from more than one class, use the rules below. If you multiclass but have the Spellcasting feature from only one class, follow the rules for that class.
Spells Prepared. You determine what spells you can prepare for each class individually, as if you
were a single-classed member of that class. If you are a level 4 Ranger/ level 3 Sorcerer, for example, you can prepare five level l Ranger spells, and you can prepare six Sorcerer spells of level I or 2 (as well as four Sorcerer cantrips).
Each spell you prepare is associated with one of your classes, and you use the spellcastiog ability of that class when you cast the spell.
Cantrips. If a cantrip of yours increases in power at higher levels, the increase is based on your total character level, not your level in a particular class, unless the spell says otherwise.


44	CHAPTER 2 I CREATING A CHARACTER

MULTICLASS SPELLCASTER:
SPELL SLOTS PER SPELL LEVEL

Level	1	2	3	4	5	6	7	8	9
1	2								
2	3								
3	4	2							
4	4	3							
5	4	3	2						
6	4	3	3						
7	4	3	3	1					
8	4	3	3	2					
9	4	3	3	3	1				
10	4	3	3	3	2				
11	4	3	3	3	2				
12	4	3	3	3	2				
13	4	3	3	3	2				
14	4	3	3	3	2				
15	4	3	3	3	2			1	
16	4	3	3	3	2			1	
17	4	3	3	3	2		1		
18	4	3	3	3	3		1	1	
19	4	3	3	3	3	2		1	
20	4	3	3	3	3	2	2	l	

Spell Slots. You determine your available spell slots by adding together the following:
    • All your levels in the Bard, Cleric, Druid, Sorcerer, and Wizard classes
    • Half your levels (round up) in the Paladin an.d Ranger classes
    • One third of your Fighter or Rogue levels (round
down) if you have the Eldritch Knight or Arcane Trickster subclass.
Then look up this total level in the Level column of the Multiclass Spellcaster table. You use the slots for that level to cast spells of an appropriate level from any class whose Spellcasting feature you have.
This table might give you spell slots of a higher level than the spells you prepare. You can use those slots but only to cast your lower-levelspells. If a lower-level spell that you cast, like Burning Hands, has an enhanced effect when cast at a higher level, you can use the enhanced effect as normal.
For example, if you are a level 4 Ranger/ level 3 Sorcerer, you count as a level 5 character when de-termining your spell slots, counting all your levels as a Sorcerer and half your Ranger levels. As shown in the Multiclass Spellcaster table, you have four level I spell slots, three level 2 slots, and two level 3 slots. However, you can't prepare any level 3 spells,

















































































A CMA'lAC1'ER WITI-I PA1.-A01N ANO WARLOC.M Ll!YfLS MIGt4T C,'U,
ON 10TH A Ml(i14TV OATM AND AN 0Tt--!,RWORL0LV PA1'RON.


nor can you prepare any level 2 Ranger spells. You can use the spell slots of those levels to cast the spells you do prepare-and potentially enhance their effects.
Pact Magic. If you have the Pact Magic feature
from the Warlock class and the Spellcasting feature, you can use the spell slots you gain from Pact Magic to cast spells you have prepared from classes with the Spellcastfag feature, and you can use the spell slots you gain from the Spellcasting feature to cast Warlock spells you have prepared.
CHAPTER 2 I CREATINC A CHARACTER	45
TRINKETS
When you make your character, you can roll once on the Trinkets table to gain a Tiny trinket, a simple item lightly touched by mystery. The DM might also use this table. It can help stock a room in a dungeon or fill a ereature's pockets.

TRINKETS
ldl00  Trinket
    01 A mummified goblin hand
    02 A crystal that faintly glows in moonlight 03	A gold coin minted in an unknown land
    04 A diary written in a language you don't know
    05 A brass ring that never tarnishes
    06 An old chess piece made from glass
    07 A pair ofknucklebone dice, each with a skull symbol on the side that would normally show six pips
    08 A small idol depicting a nightmarish crea-ture that gives you unsettling dreams when you sleep near it
    09 A lock of someone's hair
    10 The deed for a parcel of land in a realm un-known to you
    11 A 1-ounce block made from an unknown material
    12 A small cloth doll skewered with needles
    13 A tooth from an unknown beast
    14 An enormous scale, perhaps from a dragon
    15 A bright-green feather
    16 An old divination card bearing your likeness
    17 A glass orb filled with moving smoke
    18 A 1-pound egg with a bright-red shell
    19 A pipe that blows bubbles
    20 A glass jar containing a bit of flesh floating in pickling fluid
    21 A gnome-crafted music box that plays a song you dimly remember from your childhood
    22 A wooden statuette of a smug haIfling
    23 A brass orb etched with strange runes
    24 A multicolored stone disk
    25 A silver icon of a raven
    26 A bagcontaining forty-seven teeth, one of which is rotten
ldlOO Trinket
    27 A shard of obsidian that always feels warm to the touch
    28 Adragon's talon strung on a leather necklace
    29 A pair of old socks
    30 A blank book whose pages refuse to hold ink, chalk, graphite, or any other marking
    31 A silver badge that is a five-pointed star
    32 A knife that belonged to a relative
    33 A glass vial filled with nail clippings
    34 A rectangular metal device with two tiny metal cups on one end that throws sparks when wet
3S	A white, sequined glove sized for a human
    36 A vest with one hundred tiny pockets
    37 A weightless stone
    38 A sketch of a goblin
    39 An empty glass vial that smells of perfume
    40 A gemstone that looks like a lump of coal when examined by anyone but you
    41 A scrap of cloth from an old banner
    42 A rank insignia from a lost legionnaire
    43 A silver bell without a clapper
    44 A mechanical canary inside a lamp
    45 A miniature chest carved to look like it has numerous feet on the bottom
    46 A dead sprite inside a clear glass bottle
    47 A metal can that has no opening but sounds as if it is filled with liquid, sand, spiders, or broken glass (your choice)
    48 A glass orb filled with water, in which swims a clockwork goldfish
    49 A silver spoon with an M engraved on the handle
SO	 A whistle made from gold-colored wood S1	 Adead scarab beetle the size of your hand S2	Two toy soldiers, one missing a head






46	CHAPTER 2 I CREATINC A CHARACTER
ldl00	Trinket	ldl00	Trinket
53	A small box filled with different-sized buttons	83	A bit of folded cloth that, when unfolded,
turns into a stylish cap
54	A candle that can't be lit	84	A receipt of deposit at a bank in a far-off city
55	A miniature cage with no door	85	A diary with seven missing pages
56	An old key	86	An empty silver snuffbox bearing the inscrip-
    57 An indecipherable treasure map	lion "dreams" on its lid
    58 A hilt from a broken sword	87	An iron holy symbol devoted to an unknown
    59 A rabbit's foot	god
    60 A glass eye	88	A book about a legendary hero's rise and fall, with thelast chapter missing
    61 A cameo of a hideous person
    62 A silver skull the size of a coin
    63 An alabaster mask
    64 A cone of sticky black incense that stinks
    89 A vial of dragon blood
    90 An ancient arrow of elven design
    91 A needle that never bends
    92 An ornate brooch of dwarven design
    65 A nightcap that gives you pleasant dreams
when you wear it	93
    66 A single caltrop made from bone
An empty wine bottle bearing a pretty label that says, "The Wizard of Wines Winery, Red Dragon Crush, 331422-W"
    67 A gold monocle frame without the lens	94	A mosaic tile with a multicolored, glazed
    68 A 1-inch cube, each side a different color	surface
    69 A crystal doorknob	95	A petrified mouse









d



CHAPTER 2 I CREATlNC A CHARACTER	47

.. . ' .
I
CHAPTER 3
CHARACTER  CLASSES


HARACTER CLASS PROVIDES A CHARACTER'S
most exciting capabilities. This chapter offers twelve classes, each of which contains four
subclasses-all summarized below.
Barbarian. Storm with Rage, and wade into hand• to-hand combat. Then follow the Path of the ...
Berserker to unleash raw violence.
Wild Heart to manifest kinship with animals.
World Tree to tap into cosmic vitality.
Zealot to rage in union with a god.
Bard. Perform spells that inspire and heal allies or beguile foes. Then join the College of ...
Dance to harness agility in battle.
Glamour to weave beguiling Feywild magic. Lore to collect knowledge and magical secrets. Valor to wield weapons with spells.
Cleric. Invoke divine magic to heal, bolster, and smite. Then harness the ...
Life Domain to be a master of healing.
Light Domain to wield searing, warding light. Trickery Domain to bedevil foes with mischief. War Domain to inspire valor and chastise foes.
Druid. Channel nature magic to heal, shape-shift, and control the elements. Then join the Circle of the ...
Land to draw on the magic of the environment.
Moon to adopt powerful animal forms.
Sea to channel tides and storms.
Stars to gain powers in a starry form.
Fighter. Master all weapons and armor. Then em-body the ...
Battle Master to use special combat maneuvers.
Champion to strive for peak combat prowess.
Eldritch Knight to learn spells to aid in combat.
Psi Warrior to augment attacks with psionic power.
Monk. Dart in and out of melee while striking fast and hard. Then become a Warrior of ...
Mercy to heal or harm with a touch. Shadow to employ shadows for subterfuge. The Elements to wield elemental power.
The Open Hand to master unarmed combat.
Paladin. Smite foes and shield allies with divine and martial might. Then swear the Oath of ...
Devotion to emulate the angels of justice. Glory to reach the heights of heroism.
The Ancients to preserve life, joy, and nature.
Vengeance to hunt down evildoers.
Ranger. Weave together martial prowess, nature magic, and survival skills. Then embody the ...
Beast Master to bond with a primal beast.
FeyWanderer to manifest fey mirth and fury. Gloom Stalker to hunt foes that lurk in darkness. Hunter to protect nature with martial versatility.
Rogue. Launch deadly Sneak Attacks while avoid-ing harm through stealth. Then embody the ...
Arcane Trickster to enhance stealth with spells.
Assassin to deliver ambushes and poison.
Sou/knife to strike foes with psi blades.
Thief to master infiltration and treasure hunting.
Sorcerer. Wield magic innate to your being, shap• ing the power to your will. Then channel ...
Aberrant Sorcery to use strange psionic magic. Clockwork Sorcery to harness cosmic forces of order. Draconic Sorcery to breathe the magic of dragons. Wild Magic to unleash chaos magic.
Warlock. Cast spells derived from occult knowl-edge. Then form a pact with the ...
Archfey Patron to teleport and wield fey magic. Celestial Patron to heal with heavenly magic. Fiend Patron to call on sinister powers.
Great Old One Patron to delve into forbidden lore.
Wizard. Study arcane magic and master spells for every purpose. Then embody the ...
Abjurer to shield allies and banish foes. Diviner to learn the multiverse's secrets. Evoker to create explosive effects.
Illusionist to weave spells of deception.








CHAPTER 3 I CHARACTER CLASSES	49


CORE BARBARIAN TRAITS
BARBARIAN CLASS FEATURES
Primary Ability
Hit Point Die
Saving Throw Proficiencies
Skill Proficiencies
Strength
D12 per Barbarian level Strength and Constitution
Choose 2: Animal Handling, Athletics, Intimidation, Na-ture, Perception, or Survival
As a Barbarian, you gain the following class fea-tures when you reach the specified Barbarian levels. These features are listed in the Barbarian Features table.
LEVEL I: RAGE
You can imbue yourself with a primal power called Rage, a force that grants you extraordinary might
Weapon Proficiencies Simple and Martial weapons Armor Training	Light and Medium armor
and Shields
Starting Equipment	Choose A or 8: (A) Greataxe,
4 Handaxes, Explorer's Pack, and 15 GP: or (BJ 75 GP


ARBARIANS ARE MIGHTY WARRIORS WHO
are powered by primal forces of the multi• verse that manifest as a Rage. Mo,·e than a
mere emotion-and not limited to anger-this Rage is an incarnation of a predator's ferocity, a storm's fury, and a sea's turmoil.
Some Barbarians personify their Rage as a fierce spirit or revered forebear. Otherssee it as a con-nection to the pain and anguish of the world, as an impersonal tangle of wild magic, or as an expression of their own deepest self. For every Barbarian. their Rage is a power that fuels not just battle prowess, but also uncanny reflexes and heightened senses.
Barbarians often serve as protectors and leaders in their communities. They charge headlong into danger so those under their protection don't have to. Their courage in the face of danger makes Bar-barians perfectly suited for adventure.
BECOMING A BARBARIAN ... -----
AsA LEVEL I CHARACTER
    • Gain all the traits in the Core Barbarian Traits table.
    • Gain the Barbarian's level I features, which are listed in the Barbarian Features table.
AS A MULTICLASS CHARACTER
    • Cain the following traits from the Core Barbarian Traits table: Hit Point Die, proficiency with Mar-tial weapons, and training with Shields.
    • Gajn the Barbarian's level I features, which a,·e listed in the Barbarian Features table.
and resilience. You can enter it as a Bonus Action if you aren't wearing Heavy armor.
You can enter your Rage the number of times shown for your Barbarian level in the Rages column of the Barbarian Features table. You regain one ex• pended use wben you finish a Short Rest, and you regajn all expended uses when you finish a Long Rest.
While active, your Rage follows the rules below.
Damage Resistance. You have Resistance to Blud· geoning, Piercing, and Slashing damage.
Rage Damage. When you make an attack using Strength-with either a weapon or an Unarmed Strike-and deal damage to the target, you gain a bonus to the damage that increases as you gain
levels as a Barbarian, as shown in the Rage Damage column of the Barbarian Features table.
Strength Advantage. You have Advantage on Strength checks and Strength saving throws.
No Concentration or Spells. You can't maintain Concentration, and you can't cast spells.
Duration. The Rage lasts until the end of your next turn, and it endsearly if you don Heavy armor or have the Incapacitated condition. If your Rage
is still active on your next turn, you can extend the Rage for another round bydoing one of the following:
    • Make an attack roll against an enemy.
    • Force an enemy to make a saving throw.
    • Take a Bonus Action to extend your Rage.
Each time the Rage is extended, it lasts until the end of your next turn. You can maintain a Rage for up to IO minutes.
LEVEL!: UNARMORED DEFENSE
While you aren't wearing any armor, your base Ar· mor Class equals 10 plus your Dexterity and Consti· tution modifiers. You can u.se a Shield and still gain this benefit.









CHAPTER 3 I CHARACTER CLASSES	51
BARBARIAN FEATURES

































LEVEL I: WEAPON MASTERY
Your training with weapons allows you to use the mastery properties of two kinds of Simple or Mar-tial Melee weapons of your choice, such as Great-axes and Handaxes. Whenever you finish a Long Rest, you can practice weapon drills and change one of those weapon choices.
When you reach certain Barbarian levels, you gain the ability to use the mastery properties of more kinds of weapons, as shown in the Weapon Mastery column of the Barbarian Features table.
LEVEL 2: DANGER SENSE
You gain an uncanny sense of when things aren't as theyshould be, givingyou an edge when you dodge perils. You have Advantage on Dexterity saving throws unless you have the Incapacitated condition.
LEVEL 2: RECKLESS ATTACK
You can throw aside all concern for defense to at-tack with increased ferocity. When you make your first attack roll on your turn, you can decide to at-tack recklessly. Doingso gives you Advantage on at-tack rolls using Strength until the start of your next turn, but attack rolls against you have Advantage during that time.

































LEVEL 3: BARBARIAN SUBCLASS
You gain a Barbarian subclass of your choice. The Path of the Berserker, Path of the Wild Heart, Path of the World Tree, and Path of the Zealot subclasses are detailed afier this class's description. Asubclass is a specialization that grants you features at cer-tain Barbarian levels. For the rest of your career, you gain each of your subclass's features that are of your Barbarian level or lower.
LEVEL 3: PRIMAL KNOWLEDGE
You gain proficiency in another skill of your choice from the skill list available to Barbarians at level I.
In addition, while your Rage is active, you can channel primal power when you attempt certain tasks; whenever you make an ability check using one of the following skills, you can make it as a Strength check even if it normally uses a differ-ent ability: Acrobatics, Intimidation, Perception,
Stealth, or Survival. When you use thisability, your Strength represents primal power coursing through you, honing your agility, bearing, and senses.




52	CHAPTER 3 I CHARACTER CLASSES

LEVl!L 4: ABILITY SCORE IMPROVEMENT
You gafo the Ability Score Improvement feat (see chapter 5) or another feat of your choice for which you qualify. You gain this feature agafo at Barbarian levels 8, 12, and 16.
LEVl!L 5: EXTRA ATTACK
You can attack twice instead of once whenever you take the Attack action on your turn.
LEVEL 5: FAST MOVEMl!NT
Your speed increases by 10 feet while you aren't wearing Heavy armor.
LEVEL 7: fŁRAL INSTINCT
Your instincts are so honed that you have Advan· tage on Initiative rolls.
LEVEL 7: INSTINCTIVE POUNCE
As part of the Bonus Action you take to enter your Rage, you can move up to half your Speed.
LEVEL 9: BRUTAL STRIKE
If you use Reckless Attack, you can forgo any Ad· vantage on one Strength-based attack roll of your choice on your turn.Thechosen attack roll mustn't have Disadvantage. If the chosen attack roll hits. the target takes an extra Jdl0 damage of the same type dealt by the weapon or Unarmed Strike, and you can cause one Brutal Strike effect of your choice.
You have the following effect options.
Forceful Blow.The target is pushed 15 feet straight away from you. You can then move up to ha.If your Speed straight toward the target without provoking Opportunity Attacks.
Hamstring Blow. The target's Speed is reduced by IS feet until the start of your next turn. A target can be affected byonly one Hamstring Blow at a time-the most recent one.
LEVEL 11: RELENTLESS RAGE
Your Rage can keepyou fighting despite grievous wounds. Ir you drop to 0 Hit Points while your Rage is active and don't die outright, you can make a DC 10 Constitution saving throw. If yousucceed, your Hit Points instead change to a number equal to twice your Barbarian level.
Each time you use this feature after the first, the DC increases by S. When you finish a Short or Long Rest, the DC resets to 10.
LEVEL13: IMPROVED BRUTAL STRIKE
You have honed new ways to attack furiously. The following effects are now amongyour Brutal Strike options.
Staggering Blow. The target has Disadvantage on the next saving throw it makes, and it can't make Opportunity Attacks until the start of your next turn.




















Sundering Blow. Before the startof your next turn, the next attack roll made by another creature against the target gains a +S bonus to the roll. An attack roll can gain only one Sundering Blow bonus.
LEVEL 15: PERSISTENT RAGE
When you roll Initiative, you can regain all ex· pended uses of Rage. After you regain uses of Rage in this way, you can't doso again until you finish a Long Rest.
In addition, your Rage is so fierce that it now lasts for 10 minutes without you needing to do anything to extend it from round to round. Your Rage ends early if you have the Unconscious condition (not just the Incapacitated condition) or don Heavy armor.
LEVEL 17: IMPROVED BRUTAL STRIKE
The extra damage of your Brutal Strike increases to 2d10. In addition, you can use two different Brutal Strike effects whenever you use your Brutal Strike feature.
LEVEL 18: INDOMITABLE  MIGHT
If your total for a Strength check or Strength sav-ing throw is less than your Strength score, you can use that score in place of the total.
LEVEL 19: EPIC BOON
You gain an Epic Boon feat (see chapter 5) or an· other feat of your choice for which you qualify. Boon of Irresistible Offense is recommended.
LEVEL 20: PRIMAL CHAMPION
You embody primal power. Your Strength and Con· stitution scores increase by 4, to a maximum of 25.
CHAPTER 3 I CHARACTER CLASSES	53

BARBARIAN SUBCLASSES
A Barbarian subclass is a specialization that grants you features at certain levels, as specified in the subclass. This section presents the Path of the Ber• serker. Path of the Wild Heart, Path of the World Tree, and Path of the Zealot subclasses.
PATH OF THE BERSERKE-R ------
Channel Rage into Violent Fury
Barbarians who walk the Path of the Berserker direct their Rage primarily toward violence. Their path is one of untrammeled fury, and they thrill in the chaos of battle as they aUow their Rage to seize and empower them.
LEVEL 3: FRENZY
If you use Reckless Attack while your Rage is active. you deal extra damage to the first target you hit on your turn with a Strength-based attack. To deter• mine the extra damage. roll a number of d6s equal to your Rage Damage bonus, and add them together. The damage has the same type as the weapon or Unarmed Strike used for the attack.
LEVEL 6: MINDLESS RAGE
You have Immunity to the Charmed and Fright· ened conditions while your Rage is active. If you're Charmed or Frightened when you enter your Rage, the condition ends on you.
LEVEL 10: RETALIATION
When you take damage from a creature that is within 5 feet of you, you can take a Reaction to make one melee attack against that creature. using a weapon or an Unarmed Strike.
LEVEL 14: INTIMIDATING PRESENCE
As a Bonus Action, you can strike terror into others with your menacing presence and primal power.
When you do so, each creature of your choice in a 30-foot Emanation originating from you must make a Wisdom saving throw (DC 8 plus your Strength modifier and Proficiency Bonus). On a failed save,
a creature has the Frightened condition for I min-ute. At the end of each of the Frightened creature's turns. the creature repeats the save, ending the ef-fect on itself on a success.
Once you use this feature, you can't use it again until you finish a Long Rest unless you expend a use of your Rage (no action required) to restore your useof it.



PATH OF THE WILD HEART---?
Walk in Community with the Animal World
Barbarians who follow the Path of the Wild Heart view themselves as kin to animals. These Barbar-ians learn magical means to communicate with an-imals, and their Rage heightens their connection to animals as it fills them with supernatural might.
LEVEL 3: ANIMAL SPEAKER
You can cast the Beast Sense and Speak with Animals spells but only as Rituals. Wisdom is your spellcast-ing ability for them.
LEVEL 3: RACE OF THE WILDS
Your Rage taps into the primal power of animals. Whenever you activate your Rage, you gain one of the following options of your choice.
Bear. While your Rage is active, you have Resis-
tance to every damage type except Force. Necrotic, Psychic, and Radiant.
Eagle. When you activate your Rage, you can take the Disengage and Dash actions as part of that Bo-nus Action. While your Rage is active, you can take a Bonus Action to take both of those actions.
Wolf While your Rage is active. your allies have Advantage on attack rolls against any enemy of yours within 5 feet of you.
LEVEL 6: ASPECT OF THE WILDS
You gain one of the following options of your choice. Whenever you finish a Long Rest, you can change your choice.
Owl. You have Darkvision with a range of60 feet. Ir you already have Darkvision. its range increases by 60 feet.
Panther. You have a Climb Speed equal to your Speed.
Salmon. You have a Swim Speed equal to your
Speed.
LEVEL 10: NATURE SPEAKER
You can cast the Commune with Nature spell but only as a Ritual. Wisdom is your spellcasting ability for it.
LEVEL 14: POWER OF THE WILDS
Whenever you activate your Rage, you gain one of the following options of your choice.
Falcon. While your Rage is active, you have a Fly Speed equal to your Speed if you aren't wearing any armor.
Lion. While your Rage is active, any of your ene-mies within 5 feet of you have Disadvantage on at-tack rolls against targets other than you or another Barbarian who has this option active.
Ram. While your Rage is active, you can cause a Large or smaller creature to have the Prone condi-tion when you hit it with a melee attack.
PATH OF THE WORLD TREE
Trace the Roots and Branches of the Multiverse
Barbarians who follow the Path of the World Tree connect with the cosmic tree Yggdrasil through their Rage. This tree grows among the Outer Planes, connecting them to each other and the Material Plane.These Barbarians draw on the tree's magic for vitality and as a means of dimensional travel.
LEVEL 3: VITALITY OF THE TREE
Your Rage taps into the life force of the World 1i'ee. You gain the following benefits.
Vitality Surge. When you activate your Rage, you gain a number of Temporary Hit Points equal to your Barbarian level.
Life-Giving Force. At the start of each of your
turns while your Rage is active, you can choose another creature within 10 feet of yourself to gain Temporary Hit Points. To determine the number of Temporary Hit Points, roll a number of d6s equal to your Rage Damage bonus, and add them together. If any of these Temporary Hit Points remain when your Rage ends, they vanish.
LEVEL 6, BRANCHES OF THE TREE
Whenever a creature you can see starts its turn
within 30 feet of you while your Rage is active, you can take a Reaction to summon spectral branches of the World Tree around it. The target must suc-ceed on a Strength saving throw (DC 8 plus your Strength modifier and Proficiency Bonus) or be tele-ported to an unoccupied space you can see within 5 feet of yourself or in the nearest unoccupied space you can see. After the target teleports, you can re-
duce its Speed to O until the end of the current turn.
LEVEL 10: BATTERING ROOTS
During your turn, your reach is 10 feet greater with any Melee weapon that has the Heavy or Versatile property, as tendrils of the World Tree extend from you. When you hit with such a weapon on your turn, you can activate the Push or Topple mastery property in addition to a different mastery property you're using with that weapon.
LEVEL 14: 'TRAVEL ALONG THE TREE
When you activate your Rage and as a Bonus Action while your Rage is active, you can teleport up to 60 feet to an unoccupied space you ca.n see.
In addition, once per Rage, you can increase the range of that teleport to 150 feet. When you do so, you can also bring up to six willing creatures who are within JO feet of you. Each creature teleports to
an unoccupied space of your choice within 10 feet	• of your destination space.
PATH OF THE ZEALOT		
Rage in Ecstatic Union with a God
Barbarians who walk the Path of the Zealot receive boons from a god or pantheon. These Barbarians experience their Rage as an ecstatic episode of divine union that infuses them with power. They are often allies to the priests and other followers of their god or pantheon.
L.EVEL 3: DrvINE FURY
You can channel divine power into your strikes. On each of your turns while your Rage is active, the first creature you hit w•ith a weapon or an Unarmed Strike takes extra damage eq_ual to ld6 plus half your Barbarian level (round down).The extra dam-age is Necrotic or Radiant: you choose the type each time you deal the damage.
L!!VEL 3:WARRIOR OF THE Goos
A divine entity helps ensure you can continue the fight. You have a pool of four d12s that you can spend to heal yourself. As a Bonus Action, you can expend dice from the pool, roll them, and regain a number of Hit Points equal to the roll's total.
Your pool regains all expended dice when you fin-ish a Long Rest.
The pool's maximum number of dice increases by one when you reach Barbarian levels 6 (S dice). 12 (6 dice), and 17 (7 dice).
LEVEL 6: FANATJCAL Focus
Once per active Rage, if you fail a saving throw, you can reroll it with a bonus equal to your Rage Dam-age bonus, and you must use the new roll.
LEVELI0:ZEALOUSPRESENCE
As a Bonus Action, you unleash a battle cry infused with d.ivine energy. Up to ten other creatures of your choice within 60 feet of you gain Advantage on attack rolls and saving throws until the start of your next turn.
Once you use this feature, you can't use it again until you finish a Long Rest unless you expend a use of your Rage (no action required) to restore your use of it.
LEVEL 14, RACE or THE Goos
When you activate your Rage, you can assume the form of a divine warrior. This form lasts for I min-ute or until you drop to O Hit Points. Once you use this feature, you can't doso again until you finish a Long Rest.
While in this form, you gain the benefits below.
Flight. You have a Fly Speed equal to your Speed and can hover.
Resistance. You have Resistance to Necrotic, Psy-chic, and Radiant damage.
Revivification. When a creature within 30 feet
of you would drop to O Hit Points, you can take a Reaction to expend a useof your Rage to instead change the target's Hit Points to a number equal to your Barbarian level.


(ORE BARD TRAITS
Primary Ability Hit Point Die
Saving Throw Proficiencies

Charisma
08 per Bard level Dexterity and Charisma
BARD CLASS FEATURES
As a Bard, you gain the following class features when you reach the specified Bard levels. These fea-tures are listed in the Bard Features table.
LEVEL I: BARDIC [NSPIRATION
Skill Proficiencies	Choose any 3 skills (see
chapter 1)
Weapon Proficiencies Simple weapons
Tool Proficiencies	Choose 3 Musical Instruments
(see chapter 6)
You can supernaturally inspire others through words, music, or dance. This inspiration is repre-sented by your Bardic Inspiration die, which is a d6.
Using Bardic Inspiration. As a Bonus Action, you can inspire another creature within 60 feet of your-self who can see or hear you. That creature gains
Armor Training
Starting Equipment
Light armor
Choose A or B: (A) Leather Armor, 2 Daggers, Musical Instrument of your choice, Entertainer's Pack, and 19 GP; or (B) 90 GP
one of your Bardic Inspiration dice. A creature can have only one Bardic lnspiration die at a time.
Once within the next hour when the creature fails a D20 Test, the creature can roll the Bardic Inspira-tion die and add the number rolled to the d20, po-tentially turning the failure into a success. A Bardic Iaspiration die is expended when it's rolled.
Number of Uses. You can confer a Bardic Inspira-
tion die a number of times equal to your Charisma
NVOKING MAGIC THROUGH MUSIC, DANCE,
and verse, Bards are expert at inspiring others, soothing hurts, disheartening foes, and creat-
ing illusions. Bards believe the multiverse wasspo-ken into existence and that remnants of its Words of Creation still resound and glimmer on every plane of existence. Bardic magic attempts to harness those words, which transcend any language.
Anything can inspire a new song or tale,so Bards are fascinated by almost everything. They become masters of many things, including performing mu-sic, working magic, and mal<lngjests.
A Bard's life is spent traveling, gathering lore, tell-ing stories, and living on the gratitude of audiences. much like any other entertainer. But Bards' deptb of knowledge and mastery of magic sets them apart.
BECOMING A BARD ...		
As A LEVEL] CHARACTER
    • Gain all the traits in the Core Bard Traits table.
    • Gain the Bard's level I features, which are listed in the Bard Features table.
As A MULTICLASS CHARACTER
    • Gain the following traits from the Core Bard Traits table: Hit Point Die, proficiency in one skill of your choice, proficiency ,vith one Musical In-strument of your choice, and training with Light armor.
    • Gain the Bard's level I features, which are listed in the Bard Features table.See the multiclassiog rules in chapter 2 to determine your available spell slots.
modifier (minimum of once), and you regain all ex• pended uses when you finish a Long Rest.
At Higher Levels. Your Bardic Inspiration die changes when you reach certain Bard levels, as shown in the Bardic Die column of the Bard Pea· tures table. The die becomes a d8 at level 5, a dlO at level 10, and a d12 at level 15.
LEVEL I: SPELLCASTING
You have learned to cast spells through your bardic a.rts. Seechapter 7 for the rules on spellcasting. The information below details how you use those rules with Bard spells, which appear in the Bard spell list later in the class's description.
Cantrips. You know two cantrips of your choice from the Bard spell list. Dancing Lights and Vicious Mockery are recommended.
Whenever you gain a Bard level, you can replace one of your cantrips with another cantrip of your choice from the Bard spell list.
When you reach Bard levels 4 and 10, you learn another cantrip of your choice from the Bard spell list. as shown in the Cantrips column of the Bard Features table.
SpellSlots. The Bard Features table shows how manyspell slots you have to cast your level I• spells. You regain all expended slots when you finish a Long Rest.
Prepared Spells of Level 1+. You prepare the list of level I+spells that are available for you to cast with this feature. Tostart, choose four level I spells from the Bard spell list. Charm Person,Color Spray, Disso-nant Whispers, and Healing Word are recommended.
CHAPTER 3 I CHARACTER CLASSES	59
BARD FEATURES
Proficiency
Bardic
Prepared
--Spell Slots per Spell Level--
Level
Bonus
Class Features
Die
Cantrips
Spells
1	2	3	4	S	6	7	8	9




























The number of spells on your list increases as you gain Bard levels, as shown in the Prepared Spells column of the Bard Features table. Whenever that number increases, choose additional spells from the Bard spell list until the number of spells on your list matches the number on the table. The chosen spells must be of a level for which you have spell slots. For example, if you're a level 3 Bard, your list of pre· pared spells can include six spells of levels I and 2 in any combination.
Jf another Bard feature gives you spells that you
always have prepared, those spells don't count against the number of spells you can prepare with this feature, but those spells otherwise count as Bard spells for you.
Changing Your Prepared Spells. Whenever you gain a Bard level, you can replace one spell on your list with another Bard spell for which you have spell slots.
Spellcasting Ability. Charisma is your spellcasting ability for your Bard spells.
Spellcasting Focus. You can use a Musical lnstru· ment as a Spellcasting Focus for your Bardspells.































LEV.EL 2: EXPERTISE
You gain Expertise (see the rulesglossary) in two of your skill proficiencies of your choice. Performance and Persuasion are recommended if you have profi-ciency in them.
At Bard level 9, you gain Expertise in two more of your skill proficiencies of your choice.
LEVEL 2:JACK OF ALL TRADES
You can add half your Proficiency Bonus (round down) to any ability check you make that uses a skill proficiency you lack and that doesn't otherwise use your Proficiency Bonus.
For example, if you make a Strength (Athletics)
check a,nd lack Athletics proficiency, you can add half your Proficiency Bonus to the check.
LEVEL 3: BARO SUBCLASS
You gain a Bard subclass of your choice.The College of Dance, College of Glamour, College of Lore, and College of Valor subclasses are detailed after this class's description. A subclass is a specialization that grants you features at certain Bard levels. For the rest of your career. you gain each of your subclass's features that are of your Bard level or lower.



60	CHAPTER 3 I CHARACTER CLASSES



A BARD'S REPERTOIRE
Does your Bard beat a drum while chanting the deeds of ancient heroes? Strum a lute while crooning romantic tunes? Perform arias of stir-ring power? Recite dramatic monologues from classic tragedies? Use the rhythm of a folk dance to coordinate the movement of allies in battle? Compose naughty limericks?
When you play a Bard, consider the style of artistic performance you favor, the moods you might invoke, and the themes that inspire your own creations. Are your poems inspired by mo-ments of natural beauty, or are they brooding reflections on loss? Do you prefer lofty hymns or rowdy tavern songs? Are you drawn to laments for the fallen or celebrations of joy? Do you dance merry jigs or perform elaborate interpretive cho-reography? Do you focus on one style of perfor-mance or strive to master them all?


LEVEL 4: ABILITY SCORE IMPROVEMENT
You gain the Ability Score Improvement feat (see chapter 5) or another feat of your choice for which you qualify. You gain this feature again at Bard lev-els 8, 12, and 16.
LEVEL 5: FONT OF INSPIRATION
You now regain all your expended uses of Bardic In-spiration when you finish a Short or Long Rest.
In addition. you can expend a spell slot (no action
required) to regain one expended use of Bardic Inspiration.
LEVEL 7: COUNTERCHARM
You can use musical notes or words of power to dis-rupt mind-inAuencing effects. If you or a creature within 30 feet of you fails a saving throw against an effect that applies the Charmed or Frightened con· dition, you can take a Reaction to cause the save to be rerolled, and the new roll has Advantage.
LEVEL 10: MAGICAL SECRETS
You've learned secrets from various magical tradi· tions. Whenever you reach a Bard level (including this level) and the Prepared Spells number in the Bard Features table increases, you can choose any of your new prepared spells from the Bard, Cleric, Druid, and Wizard spell lists. and tbe chosen spells count as Bard spells for you (see a class's section for its spell list). In addition. whenever you replace a spell prepared for this class, you can replace it with a spell from those lists.
LEVEL 18: SUPERlOR INSPIRATION
When you roU Initiative, you regain expended uses of Bardic Inspiration until you have two if you have fewer than that.



























LEVEL 19: EPIC BOON
You gain an Epic Boon feat (see chapter S) or an• other feat of your choice for which you qualify. Boon of Spell Recall is recommended.
LEVEL 20: WORDS OF CREATION
You have mastered two of the Words of Creation: the words oflife and death. You therefore always have the Power Word Heal and Power Word Kill spells prepared. When you cast either spell, you can target a second creature with it if that creature is within 10 feet of the first target.
CHAPTER 5 I CHARACTER CLASSES	61
BARD SPELL LIST	 Spell	 School	Special This section presents the Bard spell list. Thespells	Tasha's Hideous Laughter	Enchantment		C
are organized by spell level and then alphabetized,	Thunderwove	Evocation
and each spell's school of magic is listed. In the Spe-
cial column, Cmeans the spell requires Concentra-tion, R means it's a Ritual, and M means it requires a specifk Material component.
Unseen Servant	Conjuration	R

LEVEL 2 BARD SPELLS
Spell	School	Special
CANTRIPS (LEVEL O BARD SPELLS)	Aid	Abjuration
Spell
Blade Ward Dancing Lights Friends
Light
Mage Hand Mending Message Minor Illusion
Prestidigitation Starry Wisp Thunderclap True Strike
School	Special	 Animal Messenger	 Enchantment	 R Abjuration		C	 Blindness/Deafness	 Transmutation Illusion		 C	 Calm Emotions	 Enchantment	 C Enchantment		 C	Cloud of Daggers	Conjuration	C Evocation			Crown of Madness	 Enchantment	C
Conjuration	Detect Thoughts	Divination	C
Transmutation	Enhance Ability	Transmutation	C
Transmutation	Enlarge/Reduce	Transmutation	C
Illusion	Enthrall	Enchantment	C
Transmutation	Heat Metal	Transmutation	C
Evocation	Hold Person	Enchantment	C
Evocation	Invisibility	Illusion	C
Divination	Knock	Transmutation
Vicious Mockery	Enchantment	Lesser Restoration	Abjuration

LEVEL 1 BARD SPELLS
Spell	School	Special
Animal Friendship	Enchantment
Bane	Enchantment	C
Charm Person	Enchantment
Color Spray	Illusion
Command	Enchantment
Locate Animals or Plants	Divination	R
Locate Object	Divination	C
Magic Mouth	Illusion	R,M
Mirror Image	Illusion
Phantasmal Force	Illusion	C
See Invisibility	Divination
Shatter	Evocation
Comprehend Languages	Divination	R	Silence
Illusion	C, R
Cure Wounds	Abjuration
Detect Magic	Divination	C,R
Suggestion	Enchantment	C
Zone of Truth	Enchantment
Disguise Self	Illusion	LEVEL 3 BARD SPELLS
Dissonant Whispers	Enchantment
Faerie Fire	Evocation	C
Feather Foll	Transmutation
Healing Word	Abjuration
Heroism	Enchantment	C
Spell	School	Special
Bestow Curse	Necromancy	C
Clairvoyance	Divination	C,M
Dispel Magic	Abjuration
Fear	Illusion	C
Identify	Divination	R,M
Illusory Script	Illusion	R,M
Longstrider	Transmutation
Silent Image	Illusion	C
Sleep	Enchantment	C
Speak with Animals	Divination	R
Feign Death	Necromancy    R
Glyph of Warding	Abjuration	M
Hypnotic Pattern	Illusion	C Leomund's Tiny Hut	 Evocation	 R Major Image	Illusion	C
Mass HealingWord	Abjuration



62	CHAPTER 3 I CHARACTER CLASSES
Spell	School	Special
LEVEL 6 BARD SPELLS
Nondetection Plant Growth Sending
Slow
Speak with Dead Speak with Plants Stinking Cloud Tongues
LEVEL 4 BARD SPELLS
Abjuration	M Transmutation Divination Transmutation	 C Necromancy Transmutation Conjuration	 C Divination
Spell	School	Special
Charm Monster	Enchantment
Compulsion	Enchantment	C
Confusion	Enchantment	C
Dimension Door	Conjuration
Fount of Moonlight	Evocation	C
Freedom of Movement	Abjuration
Greater Invisibility	Illusion	C
Hallucinatory Terrain	Illusion
Locate Creature	Divination	C
Phantasmal Killer	Illusion	C
Polymorph	Transmutation	C

LEVEL 5 BARD SPELLS
Spell	School	Special
Animate Objects	Transmutation	C
Awoken	Transmutation	M
Dominate Person	Enchantment	C
Dream	Illusion
Geas	Enchantment
Greater Restoration	Abjuration	M
Hold Monster	Enchantment	C
Legend Lore	Divination	M
Moss Cure Wounds	Abjuration
LEVEL 7 BARD SPELLS

Spell	School	Special
Etherealness	Conjuration	
Forcecage	Evocation	C,M
Mirage Arcane	Illusion	
Mordenkainen's Magnificent Mansion	Conjuration	M
Mordenkoinen's Sword	Evocation	C,M
PowerWord Fortify	Enchantment	
Prismatic Spray	Evocation	
Project Image	Illusion	C,M
Regenerate	Transmutation	
Resurrection	Necromancy	M
Symbol	Abjuration	M
Teleporl	Conjuration	

LEVEL 8 BARD SPELLS		
Spell	School	Special
Antipathy/Sympathy	Enchantment	
Befuddlement	Enchantment	
Dominate Monster	Enchantment	C
Glibness	Enchantment	
Mind Blank	Abjuration	
Power Word Stun	Enchantment	
Mislead	Illusion	C	LEVEL 9 BARD SPELLS
Modify Memory	Enchantment	C
Spell	School
Special
Planar Binding	Abjuration	M
Foresight	Divination
Raise Dead	 Necromancy M Rory's Telepathic Bond	Divination		R Scrying	 Divination	C,M
Seeming	Illusion
PowerWord Heal	Enchantment
PowerWord Kill	Enchantment
Prismatic Wall	Abjuration
True Polymorph	Transmutation	C
Synoptic Static
Enchantment
Teleportotion Circle	Conjuration	M
Yolande's Regal Presence	Enchantment	C
CHAPTER 3 I CHARACTER CLASSES	63

BARD SUBCLASSES
A Bard subclass is a specialization that grants you features at certain Bard levels, as specified in the subclass. Bards form loose associations, which they call colleges, to preserve their traditions.This section presents the College of Dance, College of Glamour, College of Lore, and College of Valor subclasses.
COLLEGE OF DANCE		
Move in Harmony wit/1 tlteCosmos
Bards of the College of Dance know that the Words of Creation can't be contained within speech or song; the words are uttered by the movements of celestial bodies and Aow through the motions of the smallest creatures. These Bards practice a way of being in harmony with the whirling cosmos that emphasizes agility,speed, and grace.
LEVEL 3: DAZZLING FOOTWORK
While you aren't wearing armor or wielding a Shield, you gain the following benefits.
DanceVirtuoso. You have Advantage on any Cha-
risma (Performance) check you make that involves you dancing,
Unarmored Defense. Your base Armor Class equals 10 plus your Dexterity and Charisma modifiers.
Agile Strikes. When you expend a use of your Bar· die Inspiration as part of an action, a Bonus Action, or a Reaction, you can make one Unarmed Strike as part of that action, Bonus Action, or Reaction.
Bardic Damage. You can use Dexterity instead of Strength for the attack rolls of your Unarmed Strikes. When you deal damage with an Unarmed
Strike, you can deal Bludgeoning damage equal to a roll of your Bardic Inspiration die plus your Dexter· ity modifier. instead of the strike's normal damage. This roll doesn't expend the die.
LEVEL 6: lNSPIRJNC MOVEMENT
When an enemy you can see ends its turn within 5 feet of you, you can take a Reaction and expend one use of your Bardic Inspiration to move up to half your Speed.Then one ally of your choice ,_.ithin 30 feet of you can also move up to half their Speed us· ing their Reaction.
None of this feature's movement provokes Oppor· tuoity Attacks.
LEVEL 6: TANDEM FOOTWORK
When you roll Initiative, you can expend one use of your Bardic Inspiration if you don't have the Incapacitated condition. When you do so, roll your Bardic Inspiration die;you and each ally within 30
feet of you who can see or hear you gains a bonus to Initiative equal to the number rolled.



LEVEL 14: LEADING EVASION
When you are subjected to an effect that allows you to make a Dexterity saving throw to take only half damage, you instead take no damage if you succeed on the saving throw and only half damage lfyou fail. If any creatures within 5 feet of you are making the same Dexterity saving throw, you can share this benefit with them for that save.
You can't use this feature if you have the Incapaci-tated condition.
COLLEGE OF GLAMOUR
Weave Beguiling Fey Magic
The College of Glamour traces its origins to the be· guiling magic of the Feywild. Bards who study this magic weave threads of beauty and terror into their songs and stories, and the mightiest among them can cloak themselves in otherworldly majesty.Their performances stir up wistful longing for forgotten innocence, evoke unconscious memories of long-held fears, and tug at the emotions of even the most hard-hearted listeners.
LEVEL 3: BEGUILING MAGIC
You always have the Charm Person and Mirror Image
spells prepared.
In addition, immediately aA:er you cast an En· chantment or Illusion spell usinga spell slot,you can cause a creature you can see within 60 feet of yourself to make a Wisdom saving throw against your spell save DC. On a failed save, the target has tbe Charmed or Frightened condition (your choice) for l minute.The target repeats the save at the end of each of its turns, ending the effect on itself on a success.
Once you use this benefit, you can't use it again until you finish a Long Rest. You can also restore your use of it by expending one use of your Bardic Inspiration (no action required).
LEVEL 3: MANTLE OF INSPIRATION
You can weave fey magic into a song or dance to Ill! others with vigor.As a Bonus Action, you can expend a use of Bardic Inspiration, rolling a Bard.ic Inspiration die. When you do so, choose a number
of other creatures within 60 feet of yourself, up to a number equal to your Charisma modiller (minimum of one cre-atu.re). Each of those creatures gains a number of Temporary Hit Points equal to two times the number roUed on the Bardic Inspiration die, and then each can use its Reaction to move up to its Speed without provoking Opportunity Attacks.
LEVEL 6: MANTLE OF M.i\]ESTY
You always have the Command spell prepared.
As a Bonus Action, you cast Command without expending a spell slot, and you take on an unearthly

appearance for 1 minute or until your Concentra-tion ends. During this time, you can cast Command as a Bonus Action without expending a spell slot.
Any creature Charmed by you automatically fails its saving throw against the Command you cast with this feature.
Once you use this feature, you can't use it again until you finish a Long Rest. You can also restore your use of it byexpending a level 3+spell slot (no action required).
LEVEL 14: UNBREAKABLE  MAJESTY
As a Bonus Action, you can assume a magically majestic presence for I minute or until you have the Incapacitated condition. For the duration, whenever any creature hits you with an attack roll for the first time on a turn, the attacker must succeed on a Charisma saving throw against your spell save DC, or the attack misses instead, as the creature recoils from your majesty.
Once you assume this majestic presence, you can't do so again until you finish a Short or Long Rest.
COLLEGE OF LORE
Plumb the Depths of Magical Knowledge
Bards of the College of Lore collect spells and se-crets from diverse sources,such as scholarly tomes, mystical rites, and peasant tales. The college's mem-bers gather in libraries and universities to share their lore with one. another. They also meet at festi-vals or affairs of state, where they can expose cor-ruption, unravel lies, and poke fun at self-important figures of authority.
LEVEL 3: BONUS PROFICIENCIES
You gain proficiency with three skillsof your choice.
LEVEL 3: CUTIINC WO.RDS
You learn to use your wit to supernaturallydistract, confuse, and otherwise sap the confidence and competence of others. When a creature that you can see within 60 feet of yourself makes a damage roll or succeeds on an abilitycheck or attack roll, you can take a Reaction to expend one use of your Bardic Inspiration; roll your Bardic Inspiration die, and subtract the number rolled from the creature·s roll, reducing the damage or potentially turning the success into a failure.
LEVEL 6: MAC!CAL DtSCOVŁRIES
You learn twospells of your choice. These spells can come from the Cleric, Druid, or Wizard spell list or any combination thereof (see a class'ssection for its spell list). A spell you choose must be a cantrip or a spell for which you have spell slots, asshown in the
Bard Features table.	•
You always have the chosen spells prepared, and whenever you gain a Bard level, you can replace one of the spells with another spell that meets these requirements.
LEVEL 14, PEERLESS SKILL
When you make an ability check or attack roll and fail, you can expend one use of Bardic Inspiration: roll the Bardic Inspiration die, and add the number rolled to the d20, potentially turning a failure into a success. On a failure, the Bardic Inspiration isn't expended.
COLLEGE OF VALOR		
Singthe Deeds of Ancient Heroes
Bards of the College of Valor are daringstorytell· ers whose tales preserve the memory of the great heroes of the past. These Bards sing the deeds of the mighty in vaulted halls or to crowds gathered around great bonfires. They ti·avel to witness great events firsthand and to ensure that the memory of these events doesn't pass away. With their songs, they inspire new generations to reach the same heights of accomplishment as the heroes of old.
LEVEL 3: COMBAT INSPIRATION
You can use your wit to turn the tide of battle. A creature that has a Bardic Inspiration die from you can use it for one of the following effects.
Defense. When the creature is hit by an attack
roll, that creature can use its Reaction to roll the Bardic Inspiration die and add the number rolled to its AC against that attack, potentially causing the attack to miss.
Offense. Immediately after the creature hits a target with an attack roll, the creature can roll the Bardic Inspiration die and add the number rolled to the attack's damage against the target.
LEVEL 3: MARTIAL TRAINING
You gain proficiency with Martial weapons and training with Medium armor and Shields.
In addition, you can use a Simple or Martial weapon as a Spellcasting Focus to cast spells from your Bard spell list.
LEVEL 6, EXTRA ATTACK
You can attack twice instead of once whenever you take the Attack action on your turn.
In addition, you can cast one of your cantrips that has a casting time of an action in place of one of those attacks.
LEVEL 14: BATTLE MAGIC
After you cast a spell that has a casting time of an action, you can make one attack with a weapon as a Bonus Action.


CORE CLERIC TRAITS
Primary Ability
Hit Point Die
Saving Throw Proficiencies
Skill Proficiencies


Weapon Proficiencies Armor Training
Starting Equipment



Wisdom
D8 per Cleric level Wisdom and Charisma
Choose 2: History, Insight, Medicine, Persuasion, or Religion
Simple weapons
Light and Medium armor and Shields
Choose A or B: (A) Chain Shirt, Shield, Mace, Holy Symbol, Priest's Pack, and 7 GP; or (B) 110 C P
CLERIC CLASS FEATURES
As a Cleric, you gain the following class features when you reach the specified Cleric levels. These features are listed in the Cleric Features table.
LEVEL I: SPELLOASTlNG
You have learned to cast spells through prayer and meditation. See chapter 7 for the rules on spellcast· ing, The information below details how you use those rules with Cleric spells. which appear on the Cle.ric spell list later in the class's description.
Cantrips. You know three cantrips of your choice from the Cleric spell list. Guidance, Sacred Flame, and Thaumaturgy are recommended.
Whenever you gain a Cleric level, you can replace one of your caotrips with another cantrip of your choice from the Cleric spell list.
When you reach Cleric levels 4 and 10, you learn another cantrip of your choice from the Cleric spell
LERICS DRAW POWER FROM THE REALMS
of the gods and harness it to work miracles.
Blessed bya deity, a pantheon, or another immorta I entity, a Cleric can reach out to the divine magic of the Outer Planes-where gods dwell-and channel it to bolster people and battle foes.
Because their power is a divine gi?. Clerics typ· ically associate themselves with temples dedicated to the deity or other immorta I force that unlocked their magic. Harnessing divine magic doesn't rely on specific training, yet Clerics might learn prayers and rites that help them draw on power from the Outer Planes.
Not every member of a temple or shrine i.s a Cleric. Some priests are called to a simple life of temple service, carrying out their devotion through prayer and rituals, not through magic, Many mor-
tals claim to speak for the gods, but few can marshal the power of those gods the way a Cleric can.
BECOMING A CLERIC ...		
AsA LEVEL I CHARACTER
    • Gain all the traits in the Core Cleric Traits table.
    • Gain the Cleric's level I features, which are listed in the Cleric Features table.
As A MULTICLASS CHARACTER

    • Gain the following traits from the Core Cleric Traits table: Hit Point Die and training with Light and Medium armor and Shields.
    • Gain the Cleric's level I features, which are listed in the Cleric Features table. See the multiclassing rules in chapter 2 to determine your available spell slots.
list, as shown in the Cantrips column of the Cleric
Features table.
Spell Slots.The Cleric Features tableshows h,ow many spell slots you have to cast your level l+spells. You regain all expended slots when you finish a Long Rest.
Prepared Spells of Level I+. You prepare the list of level 1+spells that are available for you to cast with this feature.To start. choose four level I spells from the Cleric spell list. Bless, CureWounds,Guiding Bolt, and Shield of Faith a.re recommended.
The number of spells on your list increases as you gain Cleric levels, as shown in the Prepared Spells column of the Cleric Features table. Whenever that number increases, choose additional spells from the Cleric spell list until the number of spells on your list matches the number on the table. The chosen spells must be of a level for which you have spell slots. For example, if you're a level 3 Cleric, your list of prepared spells can include six spells of levels I and 2 in any combination.
If another Cleric feature gives you spells that you always have prepared, those spells don't count against the number of spells you can prepare with this feature, but those spells otherwise count as Cleric spells for you.
Changing Your Prepared Spells. Whenever you finish a Long Rest, you can change your list of pre· pared spells, replacing any of the spells there with other Cleric spells for which you have spell slots.
Spellcasting Al,i/ity. Wisdom is your spellcasting ability for your Cleric spells.
Spellcasting Focus. You can use a Holy Symbol as a Spellcasting Focus for your Cleric spells.




CHAPTER 3 I CHARACTER CLASSES	69
CLERIC FEATURES
Proficiency

Channel

Prepared

--SpellSlots per Spell Level--
Level	Bonus	Class Features	Divinity	Cantrips	Spells	1	2	3	4	5	6	7	8	9
	+2	Spellcasting, Divine Order		3	4	2								
2	+2	Channel Divinity	2	3	5	3								
3	+2	Cleric Subclass	2	3	6	4	2							
4	+2	Ability Score Improvement	2	4	7	4	3							
5	+3	Sear Undead	2	4	9	4	3	2						
6	+3	Subclass feature	3	4	10	4	3	3						
7	+3	Blessed Strikes	3	4	11	4	3	3	1					
8	+3	Ability Score Improvement	3	4	12	4	3	3	2					
9	+4		3	4	14	4	3	3	3	l				
10	+4	Divine Intervention	3	5	15	4	3	3	3	2				
11	+4		3	5	16	4	3	3	3	2	1			
12	+4	Ability Score Improvement	3	5	16	4	3	3	3	2	1			
13	+5		3	5	17	4	3	3	3	2				
14	+5	Improved Blessed Strikes	3	5	17	4	3	3	3	2	l			
15	+5		3	5	18	4	3	3	3	2	1			
16	+5	Ability Score Improvement	3	5	18	4	3	3	3	2		1		
17	+6	Subclass feature	3	5	19	433321	11
18	+6		4	5	20	433331	11
19	+6	Epic Boon	4	5	21	433332	11
20	+6	Greater Divine Intervention	4	5	22	4 3 3 3 3 2 2	1	1

LEVEL 1: D1VINE ORDER
You have dedicated yourself to one of the following sacred roles of your choice.
Protector. Trained for battle, you gain proficiency with Martial weapons and training with Heavy armor.
Thaumaturge. You know one extra cantrip from the Cleric spell list. ln addition, your mystical con-nection to the divine gives you a bonus to your Intelligence (Arcana or Religion) checks. The bonus equals your Wisdom modifier (minimum of •1).
LEVEL 2: CHANNEL 0tVINITY
You can channel divine energy directly from the Outer Planes to fuel magical effects. You start with two such effects: Divine Spark and Turn Undead, each of which is described below. Each time you use this class's Channel Divinity, choose wbicb Channel Divinity effect from this class to create. Yougain additional effect options at higher Cleric levels.
You can use this class's Channel Divinity twice. You regain one of its expended uses when you finish a Short Rest, and you regain all expended uses ,vhen you finish a Long Rest. You gain additional uses when you reach certain Cleric levels, as shown in the Channel Divinity column of the Cleric Features table.
If a Channel Divinity effect requires a saving throw, the DC equals the spell save DC from this class's Spellcasting feature.
Divine Spark. As a Magic action, you point your Holy Symbol at another creature you can see within 30 feet of yourself and focus divine energy at it.
Roll ld8 and add your Wisdom modifier. You either restore Hit Points to the creature equal to that total or force the creature to make a Constitution saving throw. On a failed save. the creature takes Necrotic or Radiant damage (your choice) equal to that to-tal. On a successful save, the creature takes half as much damage (round down).
You roll an additional d8 when you reach Cleric levels 7 (2d8), 13 (3d8), and 18 (4d8).
Turn Undead. As a Magic action, you present your Holy Symbol and censure Undead creatures. Each Undead of your choice within 30 feet of you must make a Wisdom saving throw. If the creature fails its save, it has the Frightened and Incapacitated conditions for1 minute. F'or that duration, it tries to move as far from you as it can on its turns.This
effect ends early on the creature if it takes any dam-age, if you have the Incapacitated condition, or if you die.


    70 CHAPTER 3 I CHARACTER CLASSES
LEVEL 3: CLERIC SUBCLASS
You gain a Cleric subclass of your choice. The Life Domain, Light Domain, Trickery Domain, and War Domain subclasses are detailed after this class's de· scription. A subclass is aspecialization that grants you features at certain Cleric levels. For the rest of your career, you gain each of your subclass's fea· tu res that are of your Cleric level or lower.
LEVEL 4: ABILITY SCORE IMPROVEMENT
You gain the Ability Score Improvement feat (see chapter 5) or another feat of your choice for which you qualify. You gain this feature again at Cleric levels 8, 12, and 16.
LEVEL 5: SEAR UNDEAD
Whenever you use Turn Undead, you can roll a number of dSs equal to your Wisdom modifier (minimum of ldS) and add the rolls together. Each Undead that fails its saving throw against that use of Turn Undead takes Radiant damage equal to the
LEVEL 19: EPIC BOON
You gain an Epic Boon feat (see chapter 5) or an· other feat of your choice for which you qualify. Boon of Fate is recommended.
LEVEL 20: GREATER DIVINE {NTERVENTlON
You can call on even more powerful divine inter• vention. When you use your Divine Intervention feature, you can choose Wish when you select a spell. If you do so, you can't use Divine Intervention again until you finish 2d4 Long Rests.
CLERIC SPELL LIST
Thissection presents the Cleric spell list. '!'hespells are organized by spell level and then alphabetized, and each spell'sschool of magic is listed..In the Spe· cial column, C means the spell requires Concentra· tion, R means it's a Ritual, and M means it requires a specific Material component.

CANTRIPS {LEVEL O CLERIC SPELLS)
roll's total. This damage doesn't end the turn effect.
LEVEL 7: BLESSED STRIKES
Divine power infuses you in battle. You gain one of the following options of your choice (if you get ei· ther option from a Cleric subclass in an older book,
Spell Guidance Light Mending
School Divination Evocation Transmutation
Spec.ial
C
use only the option you choose for this feature).
Divine Strike. Once on each of your turns when you hit a creature with an attack roll using a weapon, you can cause the target to take an extra Ld8 Necrotic or Radiant damage (your choice).
Potent Spellcasting. Add your Wisdom modifier to the damage you deal with any Cleric cantrip.
LEVEL 10: DIVINE lNTERVENTrON
You can caU on your deity or pantheon to inter· vene on your behalf. As a Magic action, choose any Cleric spell of level 5 or lower that doesn't require a Reaction to cast. As part of the same action, you cast that spell without expending a spell slot or needing Material components. You can't use this feature again until you finish a Long Rest.
LEVEL 14: IMPROVED BLESSED STRIKES
The option you chose for Blessed Strikes grows more powerful.
Divine Strike. The extra damage of your Divine Strike increases to 2d8.
Potent Spellcasting. When you cast a Cleric can·
trip and deal damage to a creature with it, you can give vitality to yourself or another creature within 60 feet of yourself. granting a number of Temporary Hit Points equal to twice your Wisdom modifier.
Resistance
Sacred Flame Spare the Dying Thaumaturgy Toll the Dead Word of Radiance
LEVEL 1 CLERIC SPELLS
Spell Bane Bless Command
Create or Destroy Water Cure Wounds
Detect Evil and Good Detect Magic
Detect Poison and Disease Guiding Bolt
Healing Word
Inflict Wounds Protection from Evil ond Good
Purify Food and Drink Sanctuary
Shield of Faith
Abjuration	C
Evocation Necromancy Transmutation Necromancy Evocation


School	Special Enchantment			C Enchantment		C, M Enchantment Transmutation Abjuration
Divination	C
Divination	C, R
Divination	C, R Evocation
Abjuration Necromancy Abjuration	C, M

Transmutation	 R Abjuration Abjuration	C


CHAPTER 3 I CHARACTER CLASSES	7I

LEVEL 2 CLERIC SPELLS			LEVEL 4 CLERIC SPELLS	
Spell
Aid Augury	School Abjuration
Divination	Special

R, M	Spell
Aura of Life Aura of Purity	School Abjuration
Abjuration	Special C
C
Blindness/Deafness	Transmutation		Banishment	Abjuration	C
Calm Emotions	Enchantment	C	Control Water	Transmutation	C
Continual Flame	Evocation	M	Death Ward	Abjuration	
Enhance Ability	Transmutation	C	Divination	Divination	R,M
Find Traps	Divination		Freedom of Movement	Abjuration	
Gentle Repose	Necromancy	R,M	Guardian of Faith	Conjuration	
Hold Person	Enchantment	C	Locate Creature	Divination	C
Lesser Restoration	Abjuration		Stone Shape	Transmutation	

























































72	CHAPTER 3 I CHARACTER CLASSES
LEVEL 5 CLERIC SPELLS

Spell	School	Special
Circle of Power	Abjuration	C
Commune	Divination	R
Contagion
Dispel Evil and Good	Necromancy
Abjuration	
C
Flame Strike	Evocation	


















LEVEL 6 CLERIC SPELLS

Spell	School	Special
Blade Barrier	Evocation	C
Create Undead	Necromancy	M
Find the Path	Divination	C,M
Forbiddance	Abjuration	R, M
Harm	Necromancy	
Heal	Abjuration	
Heroes' Feast
Planar Ally	Conjuration
Conjuration	M
Sunbeam	Evocation	C
True Seeing	Divination	M
Word of Recall	Conjuration	































LEVEL 7 CLERIC SPELLS
Spell	School	Special
Conjure Celestial	Conjuration	C
Divine Word	Evocation
Etherealness	Conjuration
Fire Storm	Evocation
Plane Shift	Conjuration	M
PowerWord Fortify	Enchantment
Regenerate	Transmutation
Resurrection	Necromancy	M
Symbol	Abjuration	M
LEVEL 8 CLERIC SPELLS
Spell	School	Special
Antimagic Field	Abjuration	C
Control Weather	Transmutation	C
Earthquake	Transmutation	C
Holy Aura	Abjuration	C,M
Sunburst	Evocation

LEVEL 9 CLERIC SPELLS
Spell	School	Special
Astral Projection	Necromancy	M
Gale	Conjuration	C,M
Mass Heal	Abjuration
PowerWord Heal	Enchantment
,	True Resurrection	Necromancy	M
1
CLERIC SUBCLASSES
A Cleric subclass is a specialization that grants you features at certain Cleric levels, as specified in the subclass. Each Cleric subclass is named aA:er a domain of existence that is favored by a god, pan· theon. or religious order. This section presents the Life Domain. Light Domain, Trickery Domain, and War Domain subclasses.
LIFE DOMAIN

Soothe the Hurts of the World
The Life Domain focuses on the positive energy that helps sustain all life in the multiverse. Clerics who tap into this domain are masters of healing, using that life force to cure many hurts.
Existence itself relies on the positive energy asso• dated with this domain, so a Cleric of almost any religious tradition might choose it. Thi.s domain is particularly associated with agricultural deities, gods of healing or endurance, and gods of home and community. Religious orders of healing also seek the magic of this domain.
LEVEL3: DISClPLEOFL!FE
When a spell you cast with a spell slot restores Hit Points to a creature, that creature regains addi-tional Hit Points on the turn you cast the spell.The additional Hit Points equal 2 plus the spell slot's level.
LEVEL 3: LIFE DOMAIN SPELLS
Your connection to this divine domain ensures you always have certain spells ready. When you reach a Cleric level specified in the Life Domain Spells table, you thereaA:er always have the listed spells prepared.

LIFE DOMAIN SPELLS
Cleric Level Prepared Spells
3	Aid, Bless, Cure Wounds, Lesser Restoration
S	Mass Healing Word, Revivify
7	Aura of Life, Death Ward
9	Greater Restoration, Mass Cure Wounds
LEVEL 3: PRESERVE LIFE
As a Magic action, you present your Holy Symbol and expend a use of your Channel Divinity to evoke healing energy that can restore a number of Hit Points equal to flve times your Cleric level. Choose Bloodied creatures within 30 feet of yourself (which can include you), and divide those Hit Points among them. This feature can restore a creature to no more than half its Hit Point maximum.
CHAPTER 3 I CHARACTER CLASSES	73
LEVEL 6: BLESS.ED HEALER
The healingspells you cast on others heal you as well. Immediately aA:er you cast a spell with a spell slot that restores Hit Points to one or more crea· tures other than yourself, you regain Hit Points equal to 2 plus the spell slot's level.
LEVEL17: SUPREME HEALING
When you would normaUy roll one or more dice to restore Hit Points to a creature with a spell or Channel Divinity, don't roll those dice for the heal-ing; instead use the highest number possible for each die. For example, instead of restoring 2d6 Hit Points to a creature with a spell, you restore12.
LIGHT DOMAIN		
Bring Light to Banish Darkness
The Light Domain emphasizes the divine power to bringabout blazing fire and revelation. Clerics who wield this power are enlightened souls infused with radiance and the power of their deities' discerning vision, charged with chasing away lies and burning away darkness.
The Light Domain is associated with gods of truth. vigilance, beauty, insight. and renewal. Some of these gods are identified with the sun or as chari-oteers who guide the sun across the sky. Others are sentinels who pierce deception. Some are deities of beauty and artistry who teach that art is a vehicle for the soul's improvement.
LEVEL 3: LIGHT DOMAIN SPELLS
Your connection to this divine domain ensures you always have certain spells ready. When you reach a Cleric levelspecified in the Light Domain Spells table, you thereaA:er always have the listed spells prepared.

LIGHT DOMAIN SPELLS
Cleric Level Prepared Spells
3	Burning Hands, Faerie Fire, Scorching Ray, See Invisibility
5	Daylight, Fireball
7	Arcane Eye, Wall of Fire
9	Flame Strike, Scrying

LEVEL 3: RADIANCE OF THE DAWN
As a Magic action, you present your Holy Symbol and expend a use of your Channel Divinity to emit a nash of light in a 30-foot Emanation originating from yourself. Any magical Darkness-such as that created by the Darkness spell-in that area is dis· pelled. Additionally. each creature of your choice in that area must make a Constitution saving throw, taking Radiant damage equal to 2d10 plus your Cleric level on a failed save or half as much damage on a successrul one.
LEVEL 3: WARDING FLARE
When a creature that you can see within 30 feet
of yourself makes an attack roll, you can take a Re· action to impose Disadvantage on the attack roll, causing light to Rare before it hits or misses.
You can use this feature a number of times equal to your Wisdom modifier (minimum of once). You regain all expended uses when you finish a Long Rest.
LEVEL 6: IMPROVED WARDING  FLARE
You regain all expended uses of your Warding Flare when you finish a Short or Lo.ng Rest.
In addition. whenever you use Wat'ding Flare, you can give the target of the triggering attack a num• ber of Temporary Hit Points equal to 2d6 plus your Wisdom modifier.
LEVEL 17: CORONA OF LIGHT
As a Magic action, you cause yourself to emit an aura of sunlight that lasts for 1 minute or until you dismjss it (no action required}. You emit Bright Light in a 60-foot radius and Dim Light for an ad· ditional 30 feet. Your enemies in the Bright Light have Disadvantage on saving throws against your Radiance of the Dawn and any spell that deals Fire or Radiant damage.
You can use this feature a number of timesequal to your Wisdom modifier (minimum of once}. and you regain all expended uses when you finish a Long Rest.
TRICKERY DOMAIN
Make Miscl,ief and C/,al/e11ge Aut/1ority
The Trickery Domain offers magic of deception. ii· lusion, and stealth. Clerics who wield this magic are a disruptive force in the world, puncturing pride, mocking tyrants. freeingcaptives, and flouting hol· low traditions. They prefer subterfuge and pranks to direct confrontation.
Gods of trickery are mischief-makers and insti• gators whostand as a constant challenge to the accepted order among both gods and mortals.
Theyembody the forces of change and social up· heaval, and they're patrons of thieves,scoundrels, gamblers, rebels, and liberators. Religious orders that operate in secret, especially those that seek to undermine oppressive governments or hierarchies, also draw on the power of the Trickery Domain.
LEVEL 3: BLESSING OF THE TRICKSTER
As a Magic action. you can choose yourself or a willing creature within 30 feet of yourself to have Advantage on Dexterity (Stealth}checks.This blessing lasts until you finish a Long Rest or you use this feature again.
LEVEL 3: INVOKE DUPLICITY
As a Bonus Action, you can expend one use of your Channel Divinity to create a perfect visual illusion of yourself in an unoccupied space you can see within 30 feet of yourself. The illusion is intangible and doesn't occupy its space. It lasts for I minute, but it ends early if you dismiss it (no action re-quired} or have the Incapacitated condition.The ii· lusion is animated and mimics your expressions and
gestures. While it persists, you gain the foHowing benefits.
Cast Spells. You can cast spells as though you were in the illusion's space, but you must use your own senses.
Distract. When both you and your illusion are
within 5 feet of a creature that can see the illusion, you have Advantage on attack rolls against that creature, given how distracting the illusion is to the target.
Move. As a Bonus Action, you can move the illu•
sion up to 30 feet to an unoccupied space you can see that is within 120 feet of yourself.
LEVEL 3: TRICKERY DOMAIN SPELLS
Your connection to this divine domain ensures you always have certain spells ready. When you reach a Cleric level specified in the Trickery Domain Spells table, you thereafter always have the listed spells prepared.

TRICKERY DOMAIN SPELLS
Cleric Level Prepared Spells
3	Charm Person, Disguise Self, Invisibility,
Pass without Trace
5	Hypnotic Pattern, Nondetection
7	Confusion, Dimension Door
9	Dominate Person, Modify Memory
LEVEL 6: TRICKSTER'S TRANSPOSITION
Whenever you take the Bonus Action to create or move the illusion of your Invoke Duplicity, you can teleport, swapping places with the illusion.
LEVEL 17: lMPROVED DUPLICITY
The illusion of your Invoke Duplicity bas grown more powerful in the following ways.
Shared Distraction. When you and your allies make attack rolls against a creature
within 5 feet of the illusion, the attack rolls have Advantage.
Healing Illusion. When the illusion ends, you or a creature of your choice within 5 feet of it regains a number of Hit Points equal to your Cleric level.
WAR DOMAIN		
Inspire Valor and Smite Foes
War has many manifestations. It can make heroes of ordinary people. It can be desperate and horrific, with acts of cruelty and cowardice eclips· ing instances of excellence and courage. Clerics
who tap into the magic of the War Domain excel in battle, inspiring others to fight the good fight or of-fering acts of violence as prayers.
Gods of the War Domain watch over warriors and reward them for their great deeds. They include champions of honor and chivalry as well as gods of destruction and pillage. Other war gods take a more neutral stance, promoting war in all its manifesta-tions and supporting warriors in any circumstance.
LEVEL 3: GUIDED STRIKE
When you or a creature within 30 feet of you misses with an attack roll, you can expend one use of your Channel Divinity and give that roll a +tO bo-nus, potentially causing it to hit. When you use this feature to benefit another creature's attack roll, you must take a Reaction to do so.
LEVEL 3: WARDOMAIN SPELLS
Your connection to this divine domain ensures you always have certain spells ready. When you reach a Cleric levelspecified in the War Domain Spells table, you thereafter always have the listed spells prepared.

WAR DOMAIN SPELLS
Cleric Level Prepared Spells
3	Guiding Boll, Magic Weapon, Shield of Faith, Spiritual Weapon
5	Crusader's Mantle, Spirit Guardians
7	Fire Shield, Freedom of Movement
9	Hold Monster, Steel Wind Strike
LEVEL 3: WARPRJEST
Asa Bonus Action, you can make one attack with a weapon or an Unarmed Strike. You can use this
Bonus Action a number of times equal to your Wis-dom modifier (minimum of once). You regain all ex-pended uses when you finish a Short or Long Rest.
LEVEL 6,WAR Goo's BLESSING
You can expend a use of your Channel Divinity to cast Shield of Faith or Spiritual Weapon rather than expending a spell slot. When you cast either spell
in this way, the spell doesn't require Concentration. Instead the spell lasts for I minute, but it ends early if you cast that spell again, have the Incapacitated condition, or die.
LEVEL 17: AVATAR OF BATTLE
You gain Resistance to Bludgeoning, Piercing, and Slashing damage.



CORE DRUID TRAITS
Primary Ability
Hit Point Die
Saving Throw Proficiencies
Skill Profic.iencies



Weapon Proficiencies Tool Proficiencies Armor Training Starting Equipment

Wisdom
D8 per Druid level Intelligence and Wisdom
Choose 2: Arcana, Animal Handling, Insight, Medicine, Nature, Perception, Religion, or Survival
Simple weapons Herbalism Kit
Light armor and Shields
Choose A or B: (A) Leather Armor, Shield, Sickle, Druidic Focus (Quarterstaff), Explor-er's Pack, Herbalism Kit, and 9 GP; or (BJ 50 GP
DRUID CLASS FEATURES
As a Druid, you gain the following class features when you reach the specified Druid levels. These features are listed in the Druid Features table.
LEVELi: SPELLCASTING
You have learned to cast spells through studying the mystical forces of nature. See chapter 7 for the rules on spellcasting. The information below details how you use those rules with Druid spells, which appear on the Druid spell list later in the class's description.
Cantrips. You know two cantrips of your choice from the Druid spell list. Druidcraft and Produce Flame are recommended.
Whenever you gain a Druid level, you can replace one of your cantrips with another cantrip of your choice from the Dru.id spell list.
When you reach Druid levels 4 and 10, you learn another cantrip of your choice from the Druid spell list, as shown in the Can trips column of the Druid Features table.
Spell Slots. The Druid Features table shows how
RUIDS B€LONO TO ANCIENT ORDERS THAT
call on the forces of nature. Harnessing the magic of anjmals, pla11ts, and the four
elements, Druids heal, transform into animals, and wield elemental destruction.
Revering nature above all, individual Druids gain
their magic from nature, a nature deity, or both, and they typically unite with other Druids to per-form rites that mark the passage of the seasons and other natural cycles.
Druids are concerned with the delicate ecological balance that sustains plant and animal life and with the need for people to live in harmony with nature. Druids often guard sacred sites or watch over re-gions of unspoiled nature, but when a signilicant danger arises, Druids take a more active role as ad· venturers who combat the threat.
BECOMING A DRUID ...		
AS A LEVEL I CHARACTER
    • Gain all the traits in the Core Druid Traits table.
    • Gain the Druid's level t features, which are listed in the Druid Features table.
AS A MULTIOLASS CHARACTER
    • Gain the following traits from the Core Druid Traits table: Hit Point Die and training with Light armor and Shields.
    • Gain the Druid's level I features, which are listed in the Druid Features table. See the multiclassing rules in chapter 2 to determine your available spell slots.
many spell slots you have to cast your level I+ spells. You regain all expended slots when you finish a Long Rest.
Prepared Spells of Level 1+. You prepare the list of
level I+spells that are available for you to cast with this feature. To start, choose four level 1spells from the Druid spell list. Animal Friendship, Cure Wounds, Faerie Fire,and Thunderwave are recommended.
The number of spells on your Ii.st increases as you gain Druid levels. as shown in the Prepared Spells column of the Druid Features table. Whenever that number increases, choose additional spells from the Druid spell list until the number of spells on your list matches the number on the table. The chosen spells must be of a level for ,vhich you havespell slots. For example, if you're a level 3 Druid, your list of prepared spells can include six spells oflevels I and 2 in any combination.
If another Druid feature gives you spells that you always have prepared, those spells don't count against the number of spells you can prepare with this feature, but those spells otherwise count as Druid spells for you.
Changing Your Prepared Spells. Whenever you linish a Long Rest, you can change your list of pre· pared spells, replacing any of the spells with other Druid spells for which you have spell slots.
Spe/lcasting Ability. Wisdom is your spellcasting ability for your Druid spells.
Spellcasting Focus. You can use a Druidic Focus as a Spellcasting Focus for your Druid spells.




CHAPTER 3 I CHARACTER Cl.ASSES	79
DRUID FEATURES
Proficiency
Wild
Prepared
--Spell Slots per Spell Level--
































LEVEL 1: DRULDIC
You know Druidic, the secret language of Dru-ids. While learning this ancient tongue, you also unlocked the magic of communicating with ani-mals: you always have the Speak with Animals spell prepared.
You can use Druidic to leave hidden messages. You and others whoknow Druidic automatically spot such a message. Others spot the message's pres-ence with a successful DC15 Intelligence (Investiga-tion) check but can't decipher it without magic.
LEVEL I: PRIMAL ORDER
You have dedicated yourself to one of the following sacred roles of your choice.
Magician. You know one extra cantrip from the Druid spell list. In addition, your mystical connec-tion to nature gives you a bonus to your Intelligence (Arcana or Nature) checks.The bonus equals your Wisdom modifier (minimum bonus of+!).
Warden. Trained for battle, you gain proficiency with Martial weapons and training with Medium armor.


































LEVEL 2: WILD SHAPE
The power of nature allows you to assume the form of an animal. Asa Bonus Action. you shape-shjft into a Beast form that you have learned for this fea-ture (see "Known Forms" below). You stay in that form for a number of hours equal to half your Druid level or until you use Wild Shape again, have the In-capacitated condition, or die. You can also leave the form early as a Bonus Action.
Number of Uses. You can use Wild Shape twice. You regain one expended use when you finish a Short Rest, and you regain all expended uses when you finish a Long Rest.
You gain additional uses when you reach certain Druid levels, as shown in the Wild Shape column of the Druid Features table.
Known Forms. You know four Beast forms for this feature, chosen from among Beast stat blocks that have a maximum Challenge Rating of 1/4 and that lack a Fly Speed (see appendix B for stat block op-tions). The Rat. Riding Horse, Spider, and Wolf are recommended. Whenever you finish a Long Rest, you can replace.one of your known forms with an-other eligible form.



80	CHAPTER 3 I CHARACTER CLASSES
When you reach certain Druid levels, your num• ber of known forms and the maximum Challenge Rating for those forms increases, as shown in the Beast Shapes table. In add.ition,starting at level 8, you can adopt a form that has a Fly Speed.
When choosing known forms, you may look in the Monster Manual or elsewhere for eligible Beasts if the Dungeon Master permits you to do so.
BEAST SHAPES

Druid Level	Known Forms	Max
CR	Fly Speed
2	4	1/4	No
4	6	1/2	No
8	8		Yes
Rules While Shape-Shifted.While in a form, you retain your personality, memories, and ability to speak, and the following rulesapply:
Temporary Hit Points. When you assume a Wild Shape form, you gain a number of Temporary Hit Points equal to your Druid level.
Game Statistics. Your game statistics are replaced by the Beast'sstat block, but you retain your crea• ture type; Hit Points; Hit Point Dice; Intelligence, Wisdom, and Charisma scores; class features; languages; and feats. You also retain your skill and saving throw proficiencies and use your Pro· ficiency Bonus for them, in addition to gaining the proficiencies of the creature. Lf a skill or saving throw modifier in the Beast'sstat block is higher than yours, use the one in the stat block.
No SpeUcasting. You can't cast spells, but shape· shifting doesn't break your Concentration or oth· erwise interfere with a spell you've already cast.
Objects. Your ability to handle objects is deter-mined by the form's limbs rather than your own. In addition, you choose whether your equipment falls in your space, merges into your new form, or is worn by it. Worn equipment functions as nor-mal, but the DM decides whether it's practical for the new form to wear a piece of equipment based on the creature's size and shape. Your equipment doesn't change size or shape to match the new form, and any equipment that the new form can't wear must either fall to the ground or merge with the form. Equipment that merges with the form has no effect while you're in that form.
LEVEL 2: WILD COMPANION
You can summon a nature spirit that assumes an animal form to aid you. As a Magic action, you ca.n expend a spell slot or a use of Wild Shape to cast the Find.Familiar spell without Material components.
When you cast the spell in this way, the familiar is Fey and disappears when you finish a Long Rest.
LEVEL 3: DRUID SUBCLASS
You gain a Druid subclass of your choice. The Circle of the Land, Circle of the Moon, Circle of the Sea, and Circle of the Stars subclasses are detailed afler this class's description. A subclass is a specialization that grants you features at certain Druid levels. For the rest of your career, you gain each of your sub· class's features that are of your Druid level or lower.
LEVEL 4: ABILITY SCORE IMPROVEMENT
You gain the Ability Score Improvement feat (see chapter 5) or another feat of your choice for which you qualify. You gain this feature again at Druid levels 8, 12, and 16.
LEVEL 5: WILD RESURGENCE
Once on each of your turns, if you have no uses of Wild Shape left, you can give yourself one use by expending a spell slot (no action required).
In addition, you can expend one use of Wild Shape (no action required} to give yourself a level1 spell slot, but you can't doso again until you finish a Long Rest.
LEVEL7:ELEMENTALFURY
The might of the elements flows through you. You gain one of the following options of your choice.
Potent Spellcasting. Add your Wisdom modifier to the damage you deal with any Druid cantrip.
Primal Strike. Once on each of your turns when you hit a creature with an attack roll usinga weapon or a Beast form's attack in Wild Shape, you can cause the target to take an extra ld8 Cold, Fire. Lightning, or Thunder damage (choose ,vhen you hit).
LEVEL 15: IMPROVED ELEMENTAL FURY
The option you chose for Elemental Fury grows more powerful, as detailed below.
Potent Spellcasting. When you cast a Druid can-trip with a range of 10 feet or greater, the spell's range increases by 300 feet.
Primal Strike. The extra damage of your Primal Strike increases to 2d8.
LEVEL 18: BEAST SPELLS
While using Wild Shape, you can cast spells in Beast form, except for any spell that has a Material component with a cost specified or that consumes its Material component.
LEVEL 19: EPIC BOON
You gain an Epic Boon feat (see chapter 5) or an-other feat of your choice for which you qualify. Boon of Dimensional Travel is recommended.





CHAPTER 3 I CHARACTER Cl.ASSES	81



































LEVEi. 20: ARCHDRUID






































    • CANTRIPS (LEVEL O DRUID SPELLS)
The vitality of nature constantly blooms within
Spell
School	Special
you, granting you the following be.nefits.	Oruidcroft Evergreen Wild Shope. Whenever you roll lnitia-	 Elementolism
tive and have no uses of Wild Shape left, you regain
one expended use of it.	Guidance
Transmutation Transmutation Divination	C
Nature Magician. You can convert uses of Wild
Mending
Transmutation
Shape into a spell slot (noaction required). Choose	Message
Transmutation
a number of your unexpended uses of Wild Shape and convert them into asingle spell slot, with each
Poison Spray
Necromancy
use contributing 2 spell levels. For example, if you	Produce Flame
convert two uses of Wild Shape, you produce a level	 Resistance 4 spell slot. Once you use this benefit, you can't do	Shillelagh so again until you finish a Long Rest.
Longevity. The primal magic that you wield causes	Spore the Dying
Conjuration
Abjuration	C Transmutation Necromancy
you to age more slowly. For every ten years that
Starry Wisp
Evocation
pass, your body ages only one year.	Thorn Whip
Transmutation
DRUID SPELL LIST	Thunderclap	Evocation
This section presents the Druid spell list.The spells	LEVEL 1 DRUID SPELLS
are organized by spell level and then alphabetized.
and each spell's school of magic is listed. In the Spe-	Spell	School	Special cial column, C means the spell requires Concentra-	 Animal Friendship	 Enchantment
tion, R means it's a Ritual, and M means it requires a	Charm Person	 Enchantment specific Material component.	Create or Destroy Water	Transmutation
Cure Wounds	Abjuration	?



82	CHAPTER 3 ( CHARACTER CLASSES
Spell	School	Special	LEVEL 3 DRUID SPELLS	
Detect Magic	Divination	C,R	Spell	School	Special

	
Fog Cloud	Conjuration
Goodberty	Conjuration
Healing Word	Abjuration
Ice Knife	Conjuration
jump	Transmutation
Longstrider	Transmutation
Protection from Evil and	Abjuration	C,M	Protection from Energy	Abjuration	C
Good	Revivify	Necromancy	M
Purify Food and Drink	Transmutation	R	Sleet Storm	Conjuration	C
Speak with Animals	Divination	R
Thunderwave	Evocation
Speak with Plants	Transmutation
Summon Fey	Conjuration	C,M
Water Breathing	Transmutation	R
LEVEL 2  DRUID  SPELLS	Water Walk	Transmutation	R
Wind Wall	Evocation	C

LEVEL 4 DRUID SPELLS

Augury	Divination	R,M	Spell	School	Special
Barkskin	Transmutation		Blight	Necromancy	
Beast Sense	Divination	C,R	Charm Monster	Enchantment	
Continual Flame	Evocation	M	Confusion	Enchantment	C
Darkvision	Transmutation		Conjure Minor Elementals	Conjuration	C
Enhance Ability	Transmutation	C	Conjure Woodland Beings	Conjuration	C
Enlarge/Reduce
Find Traps	Transmutation
Divination	C	Control Water
Divination	Transmutation
Divination	C
R, M
Flame Blade	Evocation	C	Dominate Beast	Enchantment	C
Flaming Sphere	Evocation	C	Fire Shield	Evocation	
Gusto/Wind	Evocation	C	Fount of Moonlight	Evocation	C
Heat Metal	Transmutation	C	Freedom of Movement	Abjuration	
Hold Person	Enchantment	C	Giant Insect	Conjuration	C
Lesser Restoration	Abjuration		Grasping Vine	Conjuration	C
Locate Animals or Plants	Divination	R	Hallucinatory Terrain	Illusion	
Locate Object	Divination	C	Ice Storm	Evocation	
Moonbeam	Evocation	C	Locate Creature	Divination	C
Pass without Trace	Abjuration	C	Polymorph	Transmutation	C
Protection from Poison	Abjuration		Stone Shape	Transmutation	
Spike Growth	Transmutation	C	Stoneskin	Transmutation	C,M
Summon Beast	Conjuration	C,M	Summon Elemental	Conjuration	C,M
			Wall of Fire	Evocation	C






CHAPTER 3 I CHARACTER CLASSES	83



LEVEL 5 DRUID SPELLS

Spell	School	Special
Antilife Shell	Abjuration	C
Awoken	Transmutation	M
Commune with Nature	Divination	R
Cone of Cold	Evocation	
Conjure Elemental	Conjuration	C
Contagion	Necromancy
Geos	Enchantment
Greater Restoration	Abjuration	M
Insect Plague	Conjuration	C
LEVEL 9 DRUID SPELLS
Spell	School	Special
Foresight	Divination
Shopechange	Transmutation	C,M
Storm of Vengeance	Conjuration	C
Moss Cure Wounds	Abjuration	True Resurrection	Necromancy	M
Planar Binding	Abjuration	M





























LEVEL 7 DRUID SPELLS
Spell	School	Special
DRUID SUBCLASSES
A Druid subclass is a specialization that grants you features at certain Druid levels, as specified in the subclass. Druids form loose associations, ,vhich they call circles. This section presents the Circle of the Land, Circle of the Moon, Circle of the Sea, and Cir-cle of the Starssubclasses.
CIRCLE OF THE LAND
Celebrate Connection to the Natural World
The Circle of the Land comprises mystics and sages who safeguard ancient knowledge and rites. These Druids meet within sacred circles of trees or stand-ing stones to whisper primal secrets in Druidic. The circle's wisest members preside as the chief priests of their communities.
LEVEL 3: CIRCLE OF TRE LAND Sl'ELLS
Whenever you finish a Long Rest, choose one type of land: arid, polar, temperate, or tropical. Consult the table below that corresponds to the chosen type: you have the spells listed for your Druid level and lower prepared.
Fire Storm	Evocation	ARID LAND
Mirage Arcane	Illusion	Druid Level	Circle Spells
Plane Shift	Conjuration	M	3	Blur, Burning Hands, Fire Bolt
Regenerate	Transmutation	5	Fireball
Reverse Gravity	Transmutation	 C	 7		Blight Symbol	 Abjuration	M	9	Wall of Stone
LEVEL 8 DRUID SPELLS	POLAR LANO
Spell	School	Special
Animal Shapes	Transmutation
Antipathy/Sympathy	Enchantment
Befuddlement	Enchantment
Druid Level	Circle Spells
3	Fog Cloud, Hold Person, Ray of Frost
5	Sleet Storm
7	Ice Storm
Control Weather	Transmutation	C	9	Cone of Cold


84	CHAPTER 3 I CHARACTER CLASSES
TEMPERATE LAND
Druid Level	Circle Spells
3	Misty Step, Shocking Crosp, Sleep
5	Lightning Bolt
1	Freedom of Movement
9	Tree Stride

TROPICAL LAND
Druid Level	Circle Spells
3	Acid Splash, Ray of Sickness,Web
5	Stinking Cloud
1	Polymorph
9	Insect Plague
LEVEL 3: LAND'SAID
As a Magic action, you can expend a use of your Wild Shape and choose a point within 60 feet of yourself. Vitality-giving flowers and life-draining thorns appear for a moment in a 10-foot·radius Sphere centered on that point. Each creature of your choice in the Sphere must make a Constitution saving throw against your spell save DC, taking 2d6 Necrotic damage on a failed save or half as much damage on a successful one. One creature of your choice in that area regains 2d6 Hit Points.
The damage and healing increase by ld6 when you reach Druid levels10 (3d6) and 14 (4d6).
LEVEL 6: NATURAL RECOVERY
You can cast one of the level I+spells that you have prepared from your Circle Spells feature without expending a spell slot, and you must finish a Long Rest before you do so again.
In addition, when you finish a Short Rest, you can choose expended spell slots to recover. The spell slots can have a combined level that is equal to or less than half your Druid level (round up). and none of them can be level 6+. For example, if you're a level 6 Druid, you can recover up to three levels' worth of spell slots. You can recover a level 3 spell slot, a level 2 and a level 1 spell slot, or three level Ispell slots. Once you recover spell slots with this feature, you can't do so again until you finish a Long Rest.
LEVEL 10: NATURE'S WARD
You are immune to the Poisoned condition, and you have Resistance to a damage type associated with your current land choice in the Circle Spells feature, as shown in the Nature's Ward table.
NATURE'S WARD

LEVEL 14: NATURE'S SANCTUARY
As a Magic action, you can expend a use of your Wild Shape and causespectral trees and vines to appear in a 15-foot Cube on the ground within 120 feet of yourself. They last there for 1 minute or until you have the Incapacitated condition or die. You and your allies have Half Cover while in that area, and your allies gain the current Resistance of your Nature's Ward while there.
As a Bonus Action, you can move the Cube up to 60 feet to ground within 120 feet of yourself.
CIRCLE OF THE MOON
Adopt Animal Forms to Guard tileWilds
Druids of the Circle of the Moon draw on lunar magic to transform themselves. Their order gathers under the moon to share ne,?s and perform rituals.
Changeable as the moon, a Druid of this circle might prowl as a great cat one night. soar over the treetops as an eagle the next day, and then crash through undergrowth as a bear to drive off a tres-passing monster.The wild is in the Druid's blood.
LEVEL 3: CIRCLE FORMS
You can channel lunar magic when you assume a Wild Shape form,granting you the benefits below.
Clial/enge Rating. The maximum Challenge Rating for the form equals your Druid level divided by 3 (round down).
Armor Class. Until you leave the form, your AC equals 13 plus your Wisdom modifier if that total is higher than the Beast's AC.
Temporary Hit Points. You gain a number of Tem-porary Hit Points equal to three times your Druid level.
LEVEL 3: CIRCLE OP THE MOON SPELLS
When you reach a Druid level specified in the Circle of the Moon Spells table, you thereafter always have the listed spells prepared.
ln addition, you can cast the spells from this fea· ture while you're in a Wild Shape form.

CIRCLE OF THE MOON SPELLS
Druid Level	Prepared Spells
3	Cure Wounds, Moonbeam, Starry Wisp
5	Conjure Animals
7	Fount of Moonlight
9	Mass Cure Wounds




0


CIRCLE OF THE SEA		
Become One with Tides and Storms
Druids of tbe Circle of the Sea draw on the tem-pestuous forces of oceans and storms. Some view themselves as embodiments of nature's wrath, seek-ing vengeance against those who despoil nature.
Othersseek mystical unity with nature by attuning themselves to the ebb and flow of the tides, follow• ing the rush of currents and waves and listening to the inscrutable whispers and roars of the winds.
LEV.EL 3: CIRCLE OF THE SEA SPELLS
When you reach a Druid level specified in the Circle of the Sea Spells table, you thereafler always bave the listed spells prepared.









LEVEL 6: IMPROVED CIRCLE FORMS
While in a Wild Shape form, you gain the following benefits.
Lunar Radiance. Each of your attacks in a Wild Shape form can deal its normal damage type or Ra· diant damage. You make this choice each time you hit with those attacks.
Increased Toughness. You can add your Wisdom modifier to your Constitution saving throws.
LEVEL 10: MOONLIGHT STEP
You magically transport yourself, reappearing amid a burst of moonlight. As a Bonus Action, you tele· port up to 30 feet to an unoccupied space you can see, and you have Advantage on the next attack roll you make before the end of this turn.
You can use this feature a number of times equal to your Wisdom modifier (minimum of once), and you regain all expended uses when you finish a Long Rest. You can also regain uses by expending a level 2• spell slot for each use you ,_.ant to restore (no action required).
LEV.EL 14: LUNAR FORM
The power of the moon suffuses you, granting you the following benefits.
Improved Lunar Radiance. Once per turn, you can deal an extra 2d!O Radiant damage to a target you hit with a Wild Shape form's attack.
Shared Moonlight. Whenever you use Moonlight Step, you can also teleport one willing creature.
That creature must be within 10 feet of you, and you teleport it to an unoccupied space you can see within 10 feet of your destination space.
CIRCLE OF THE SEA SPELLS
Druid Level	Prepared Spells
3		Fog Cloud, Gust of Wind, Ray of Frost, Shatter, Thunderwove
S	Lightning Bolt, Water Breathing
7	Control Water, Ice Storm
9	Conjure Elemental, Hold Monster
LEVEL 3: WRATH OF THE SEA
Asa Bonus Action, you can expend a use of your Wild Shape to manifest a 5-foot Emanation that takes the form of ocean spray that surrounds you for 10 minutes. It ends early if you dismiss it (no action required), manifest it again, or have the Inca· pacitated condition.
When you manifest the Emanation and as a Bonus Action on your subsequent turns, you can choose another creature you can see in the Emanation. The target mustsucceed on a Constitution saving throw against your spell save DC or take Cold damage and, if the creature is Large or smaller, be pushed up to IS feet away from you. Todetermine this damage, roll a number of d6s equal to your Wisdom modifier (minimum of one die).
LEVEL 6: AQ.UATlC AFFINITY
Thesize of the Emanation created by your Wrath of the Sea increases to JO feet.
In addition, you gain a Swim Speed equal to your Speed.
LEVEL 10: STORMBORN
Your Wrath of the Sea confers two more benefits while active, as detailed below.
Flight. You gain a FlySpeed equal to your Speed.
Resistance. You have Resistance to Cold, Light· ning, and Thunder damage.




CHAPTER 3 I CHARACTF.R CLASSES	87
LEVEL 14: OCEANIC GIFT
Instead of manifesting the Emanation of Wrath of the Sea around yourself, you can manifest it around one willing creature within 60 feet of yourself. That creature gains all the benefits of the Emanation and uses your spell save DC and Wisdom modifier for it.
In addition, you can manifest the Emanation around both the other creature and yourself if you expend two uses of your Wild Shape instead of one when manifesting it.
CIRCLE OF THE STARS		
Harness Secrets Hidden in Constellations
The Circle of the Stars has tracked heavenly pat-terns since time immemorial, discovering secrets hidden amid the constellations. By understanding these secrets, the Druids of this circle seek to har-ness the powers of the cosmos.
LEVEL 3: STAR MAP
You've created a star chart as part of your heavenly studies. It is a Tiny object, and you can use it as a Spellcasting Focus for your Druid spells. You deter-mine its form by rolling on the Star Map table or by choosing one.
While holding the map, you have the Guidance and Guiding Bolt spells prepared, and you can cast Guid-ing Bolt without expending a spell slot. You can cast it in that waya number of times equal to your Wis-dom modifier (minimum of once), and you regain all expended uses when you finish a Long Rest.
If you lose the map, you can perform a I-hour ceremony to magically create a replacement. This ceremony can be performed duringa Short or Long Rest, and it destroys the previous map.

STAR MAP
ld6  Map Form
A scroll bearing depictions ofconstellations
    2 A stone tablet with fine holes drilled through it
    3 An owlbear hide tooled with stellar symbols
    4 A collection of maps bound in an ebony cover
    5 A crystal engraved with starry patterns
    6 A glass disk etched with constellations
LEVEL 3: STARRY FORM
As a Bonus Action, you can expend a use of your Wild Shape feature to take on a starry form rather than shape-shifting.
While in your starry form, you retain your game statistics, but your body becomes luminous, your
joints glimmer like stars, and glowing lines connect	•
them as on a star chart. This form sheds Bright
Light in a 10-foot radius and Dim Light for an addi-tional 10 feet. The form lasts for 10 minutes. It ends

early if you dismiss it (no action required), have the Incapacitated condition, or use this feature again.
Whenever you assume your starry form, choose which of the following constellations glimmers on your body; your choice gives you certain benefits while in the form.
Archer. A constellation of an archer appears on you. When you activate this form and as a Bonus Action on your subsequent turns while it lasts, you can make a ranged spell attack, hurlinga luminous arrow that targets one creature within 60 feet of yourself. On a hit, the attack deals Radiant damage equal to ld8 plus your Wisdom modifier.
Chalice. A constellation of a life-giving goblet appears on you. Whenever you cast a spell using a spell slot that restores Hit Points to a creature, you or another creature within 30 feet of you can regain Hit Points equal to ld8 plus your Wisdom modifier.
Dragon. A constellation of a wise dragon ap-pears on you. When you make an Intelligence or a Wisdom check or a Constitution saving throw to maintain Concentration, you can treat a roll of 9 or lower on the d20 as a 10.
LEVEL 6: COSMIC OMEN
Whenever you finish a Long Rest, you can consult your Star Map for omens and roll a die. Until you finish your next Long Rest, you gain access to a spe· cial Reaction based on whether you rolled an even or an odd number on the die:
Weal (Even). Whenever a creature you can see within 30 feet of you is about to make a D20 Test, you can take a Reaction to roll ld6 and add the number rolled to the total.
Woe (Odd). Whenever a creature you can see within 30 feet of you is about to make a D20 Test, you can take a Reaction to roll td6 and subtract the number rolled from the total.
You can use this Reaction a number of times equal to your Wisdom modifier (minimum of once), and you regain all expended uses when you finish a Long Rest.
LEVEL 10: 1\VINKLING CONSTELLATIONS
The constellations of your Starry Form improve. The ld8 of the Archer and the Chalice becomes 2d8, and while the Dragon is aetive, you have a Fly Speed of 20 feet and can hover.
Moreover, at the start of each of your turns while in your Starry Form, you can change which constel• Iation glimmers on your body.
?	LEVEL 14-: FULL OF STARS
?	While in your Starry Form, you become partially
?	incorporeal, giving you Resistance to Bludgeoning, Piercing, and Slashingdamage.



CORE FICHTER TRAITS
Primary Ability	Strength or Dexterity Hit Point Die	 D10 per Fighter level
Saving Throw	Strength and Constitution Proficiencies
Skill Proficiencies	Choose 2: Acrobatics, Animal
Handling, Athletics, History, Insight, Intimidation, Persua-sion, Perception, or Survival
Weapon Proficiencies Simple and Martial weapons Armor Training	Light, Medium, and Heavy
armor and Shields
Starting Equipment	Choose A, B, orC: (A) Chain
Mail, Greatsword, Flail, 8 Javelins, Dungeoneer's
Pack, and 4 GP; (B) Studded
Leather Armor, Scimitar, Shortsword, Longbow, 20 Ar-rows, Quiver, Dungeoneer's Pack, and 11 GP; or (C)
155 GP


IGHTERS RULE MANY BATTLEFIELDS.
Questing knights, royal champions, elite sol-diers, and hardened mercenaries-as Fighters,
they all sharean unparaHeled prowess with weap-ons and armor. And they are well acquainted with death, both meting it out and defying it.
Fighters master various weapon techniques, and a well-equipped Fighter always has the right tool at
hand for any combat situation. Likewise, a Fighter is adept with every form of armor. Beyond that basic degree of familiarity, each Fighter specializes in cer· tain styles of combat. Some concentrate on archery, some on fighting with two weapons at once, and some on augmenting their martial skills with magic. Thiscombination of broad abiJity and extensive spe· cialization makes Fighters superior combatants.
BECOMING A F.I;:G.;:..H;..;.TER ...


As	A LEVEL 1 CHARACTER
    • Gain all the traits in the Core Fighter Traits table.
    • Gain the Fighter's level I features, which are listed in the Fighter Features table.
As A MULTICLASS CHARACTER
    • Gain the following traits from the Core Fighter Traits table: Hit Point Die, proficiency with Mar-tial weapons. and training with Light and Medium armor and Shields.
    • Gain the Fighter's level I features, which are listed in the Fighter Features table.
FIGHTER CLASS FEATURES
As a Fighter, you gain the following class features when you reach the specified Fighter levels. These features are listed on the Fighter Features table.
LEVEL!: FIGHTING STYLE
You have honed your martial prowess and gain a Fighting Style feat of your choice (see chapter 5). Defense is recommended.
Whenever you gain a Fighter level, you can re-place the feat you chose with a different Fighting Style feat.
LEVEL 1: SECOND WINO
You have a limited well of physical and mental stamina that you can draw on. As a Bonus Action, you can use it to regain Hit Points equal to ldl0 plus your Fighter level.
You can use this feature twice. You regain one expended use when you finish a Short Rest, and you regain all expended uses when you finish a Long Rest.
When you reach certain Fighter levels, you gain more uses of this feature, as shown in the Second Wind column of the Fighter Features table.
LEVEL 1: WEAPON MASTERY
Your training with weapons allows you to use the mastery properties of three kinds of Simple or Mar-tial weapons of your choice. Whenever you finish
a Long Rest.you can practice weapon drills and change one of those weapon choices.
When you reach certain Fighter levels, you gain the ability to use the mastery properties of more kinds of weapons, as shown in the Weapon Mastery column of the Fighter Features table.
LEVEL 2: ACTION SURGE
You can push yourself beyond y·our normal limits for a moment. On your turn, you can take one addi-tional action, except the Magic action.
Once you use this feature, you can't do so again until you finish a Short or Long Rest. Starting at level 17, you can use it twice before a rest but only once on a turn.
LEVEL 2: TACTICAL MINO
You have a mind for tactics on and off the battle-field. When you fail an ability check, you can ex-pend a use of your Second Wind to push yourself toward success. Rather than regaining Hit Points, you roll ldl0 and add the number rolled to the abil-ity check. potentially turning it into a success. If the check still fails, this use of Second Wind isn't expended.
CHAPTER 3 I CHARACTER CLASSES	91
FICHTER FEATURES


Level	Proficiency
Bonus	
Class Features	Second Wind	Weapon
Mastery
1	+2	Fighting Style, Second Wind, Weapon Mastery	2	3
2	+2	Action Surge (one use), Tactical Mind	2	3
3	+2	Fighter Subclass	2	3
4	+2	Ability Score Improvement	3	4
s	+3	Extra Attack, Tactical Shift	3	4
6	+3	Ability Score Improvement	3	4
7	+3	Subclass feature	3	4
8	+3	Ability Score Improvement	3	4
9	+4	Indomitable (one use), Tactical Master	3	4
10	+4	Subclass feature	4	s
11	+4	Two Extra Attacks	4	s
12	+4	Ability Score Improvement	4	s
13	+S	Indomitable (two uses), Studied Attacks	4	s
14	+5	Ability Score Improvement	4	5
1S	+5	Subclass feature	4	5
16	+5	Ability Score Improvement	4	6
17	+6	Action Surge (two uses), Indomitable (three uses)	4	6
18	+6	Subclass feature	4	6
19	+6	Epic Boon	4	6
20	+6	Three Extra Attacks	4	6

LEVEL 3: FIGHTER SUBCLASS
You gain a Fighter subclass of your choice. The Battle Master, Champion, Eldritch Knight, and Psi Warrior subclasses are detailed after this class's de-scription. Asubclass is a specialization that grants you features at certain Fighter levels. For the rest of your career, you gain each of your subclass's fea-tures that are of your Fighter level or lower.
LEVEL 4: ABILITY SCORE lMPROVEMENT
You gain the Ability Score Improvement feat (see chapter 5) or another feat of your choice for which you qualify. You gain this feature again at Fighter levels 6, 8, 12, 14, and 16.
LEVEL 5: EXTRA ATTACK
You can attack twice instead of once whenever you take the Attack action on your turn.
LEVEL 5: TACTICAL SHIFT
Whenever you activate your Second Wind with a Bonus Action. you can move up to half your Speed without provoking Opportunity Attacks.
LEVEL 9: INDOMITABLE
If you fail a saving throw, you can reroll it with a bonus equal to your Fighter level. You must use the new roll,and you can't use this feature again until you finish a Long Rest.
You can use this feature twice before a Long Rest starting at level 13 and three times before a Long Rest starting at level 17.
LEVEL 9: TACTICAL MASTER
When you attack with a weapon whose mastery property you can use, you can replace that prop-erty with the Push, Sap, or Slow property for that attack.
LEVEL 11: 1\vo EXTRA ATTACKS
You can attack three times instead of once when-ever you take the Attack action on your turo.
LEVEL 13: STUDIED ATTACKS
You study your opponents and learn from each at-tack you make. If you make an attack roll against a creature and miss. you bave Advantage on your
next attack roll against that creature before the end of your next turn.
LEVEL 19: EPJO BOON
You gain an Epic Boon feat (see chapter 5) or an-other feat of your choice for which you qualify. Boon of Combat Prowess is recommended.
LEVEL 20: THREE EXTRA ATTACKS
You can attack four times instead of once whenever you take the Attack action on your turn.

92	CHAPTER 3 I CHARACTER CLASSES





































FIGHTER SUBCLASSES
A Fighter subclass is a specialization that grants you features at certain levels, as specified in the subclass. This section presents the Battle Mas-ter, Champion, Eldritch Knight, and Psi Warrior subclasses.
BATTLE MASTER		
Master Sophisticated Battle Maneuvers
Battle Masters are students of the art of battle, learning martial techniques passed down through generations. The most accomplished Battle Masters are well-rounded figures who combine their care-fully honed combat skills with academic study in the fields of history, theory, and the arts.
LEVEL 3: COMBAT SIJPERlORITY
Your experience on the battlefield has refined your fighting techniques. You learn maneuvers that are fueled by special dice called Superiority Dice.
Maneuvers. You learn three maneuvers of your choice from the "Maneuver Options" section later in this subclass's description. Many maneuvers en-hance an attack in some way. You can use only one maneuver per attack.
You learn two additional maneuvers of your choice when you reach Fighter levels 7, JO, and 15. Each time you learn new maneuvers, you can also replace one maneuver you know with a different one.
Superiority Dice. You have four Superiority Dice, which a.re d8s.A Superiority Die is expended when you use it. You regain all expended Superiority Dice when you finish a Short or Long Rest.
You gain an additional Superiority Die when you reach Fighter levels 7 (five dice total) and 15 (six dice total).
Saving Throws. If a maneuver requires a saving throw, the DC equals 8 plus your Strength or Dex· terity modifier (your choice) and Proficiency Bonus.





CtlAPTER 3 I CHARACTER CLASSES	93
LEVEL 3: STUDENT0FWAR
You gain proficiency with one type of Artisan's Tools of your choice, and you gain proficiency in one skill of your choice from the skms available to Fighters at level I.
LEVEL 7: Kl'fOW YOUR ENEMY
As a Bonus Action, you can discern certain strengths and weaknesses of a creature you can see within 30 feet of yourself: you know whether that creature has any Immunities, Resistances, or Vul· nerabilities, and if the creature has any, you know what they are.
Once you use this feature, you can't do so again until you finish a Long Rest. You can also restore a use of the feature by expending one Superiority Die (no action required).
LEVEL 10: IMPROVED COMBAT SUPERIORITY
Your Superiority Die becomes a dl0.
LEVEL 15: RELENTLESS
Once per turn. when you use a maneuver. you can roll !d8 and use the number rolled instead of ex· pending a Superiority Die.
LEVEL 18: ULTIMATE COMBAT SUPERI0RlTY
Your Superiority Die becomes a dl2.
MANEUVER OPTIONS
Themaneuvers are presented here in alphabetical order.
Ambush. When you make a Dexterity (Stealth) check or an Initiative roll, you can expend one Superiority Die and add the die to the roll, unless you have the Incapacitated condition.
Bait and Switch. When you're within 5 feet of a creature on your turn, you can expend one Supe• riority Die and switch places with that creature, provided youspend at least 5 feet of movement and the creature is willing and doesn't have the Inca-pacitated condition. This movement doesn't pro• voke Opportunity Attacks.
Roll the Superiority Die. Until the start of your next turn, you or the other creature (your choice) gains a bonus to AC equal to the number rolled.
Commander's Strike. When you take the Attack action on your turn, you can replace one of your attacks to direct one of your companions to strike. When you do so, choose a willing creature who can see or hear you and expend one Superiority Die.
That creature can immediately use its Reaction to make one attack with a weapon or an Unarmed Strike. adding the Superiority Die to the attack's damage roll on a hit.
Commanding Presence. When you make a Cha-risma (Intimidation, Performance, or Persuasion) check, you can expend one Superiority Die and add that die to the roll.
Disarming Attack. When you hit a creature with
an attack roll, you can expend one Superiority Die to attempt to disarm the target. Add the Superiority Die roll to the attack's damage roll. The target must succeed on a Strength saving throw or drop one ob-ject of your choice that it's holding, with the object landing in its space.
Distracting Strike. When you hit a creature with an attack roll, you can expend one Superiority Die to distract the target. Add the Superiority Die roll to the attack's damage roll. The next attack roll against the target byan attacker other than you bas Advantage if the attack is made before the start of your next turn.
Evasive Footwork. As a Bonus Action, you can expend one Superiority Die and take the Disengage action. You also roll the die and add the number rolled to your AC until the start of your next turn.
Feinting Attack. As a Bonus Action, you can ex-pend one Superiority Die to feint, choosing one creature within 5 feet of yourself as your target. You have Advantage on your next attack roll against that target this turn. If that attack hits, add the Superiority Die to the attack's damage roll.
Goading Attack. When you hit a creature with an attack roll, you can expend one Superiority Die to attempt to goad the target into attacking you. Add the Superiority Die to the attack's damage roll.The target must succeed on a Wisdom saving thro,v or have Disadvantage on attack rolls against targets other than you until the end of your next turn.
Lunging Attack. As a Bonus Action, you can ex-pend one Superiority Die and take the Dash action. If you move at least 5 feet in a straight line imme-diately before hitting with a melee attack as part of the Attack action on this turn, you can add the Superiority Die to the attack's damage roll.
Maneuvering Attack. When you hit a creature with an attack roll, you can expend one Superiority Die to maneuver one of your comrades into another position. Add the Superiority Die roll to the attack's damage roll. and choose a willing creature who can see or hear you. That creature can use its Reaction to move up to half its Speed without provoking an Opportunity Attack from the target of your attack.
Menacing Attack. When you hit a creature with an attack roll, you can expend one Superiority Die to attempt to frighten the target. Add the Supe· riority Die to the attack's damage roll. The target must succeed on a Wisdom saving throw or have the Frightened condition until the end of your next turn.
Parry. When another creature damages you with a melee attack roll, you can take a Reaction and ex-pend one Superiority Die to reduce the damage by the number you roU on your Superiority Die plus your Strength or Dexterity modifier (your choice).
Precision Attack. When you miss with an attack roll, you can expend one Superiority Die, roll that die, and add it to the attack roll. potentially causing the attack to hit.
Pushing Attack. When you hit a creature with an attack roll usinga weapon or an Unarmed Strike, you can expend one Superiority Die to attempt to drive the target back. Add the Superiority Die to the attack's damage roll. If the target is Large or
smaller, it must succeed on a Strength saving throw or be pushed up to 15feet directly away from you.
Rally. As a Bonus Action, you can expend one Su-periority Die to bolster the resolve of a companion. Choose an ally of yours within 30 feet of yourself who can see or hear you. That creature gains Tem-porary Hit Points equal to the Superiority Die roll plus half your Fighter level (round down).
Riposte. When a creature misses you with a melee attack roll, you can take a Reaction and expend one Superiority Die to make a melee attack roll with a weapon or an Unarmed Strike against the creature. If you hit, add the Superiority Die to the attack's damage.
Sweeping Attack. When you hit a creature with a melee attack roll usinga weapon or an Unarmed Strike, you can expend one Superiority Die to at-
tempt to damage another creature. Choose another creature within 5 feet of the original target and within your reach. If the original attack roll would hit the second creature, it takes damage equal to the number you roll on your Superiority Die.The dam-age is of the same type dealt by the origina I attack.
Tactical Assessment. When you make an Intelli-gence (History or Investigation) check or a Wisdom (Insight) check, you can expend one Superiority Die and add that die to the ability check.
n-ip Attack. When you hit a creature with an attack roll usinga weapon or an Unarmed Strike, you can expend one Superiority Die and add the die to the attack's damage roll. If the target is Large or smaller, it must succeed on a Strength saving throw or have the Prone condition.





CHAPTER 3 I CHARACTER CLASSES	95
CHAMPION		
Pursue Physical Excellence in Combat
A Champion focuses on the development of martial prowess in a relentless pursuit of victory. Champi-ons combine rigorous trainingwith physical excel· lence to deal devastating blows, withstand peril, and garner glory. Whether in athletic contests or bloody battle, Champions strive for the crown of the victor.
LEVEL 3: IMPROVED CRITlCAL
Your attack rolls with weapons and Unarmed Strikes can score a Critical Hit on a roll of19 or 20 on the d20.
LEVEL 3: REMARKABLE ATHLETE
Thanks to your athleticism, you have Advantage on Initiative rolls and Strength (Athletics) checks.
In addition, immediately after you score a Critical Hit, you can move up to half your Speed without provoking Oppo,·tunity Attacks.
LEVEL 7: ADDITIONAL FIGHTING STYLE
You gain another Fighting Style feat of your choice.
LEVEL 10: HEROIC WARRIOR
The thrill of battle drives you toward victory. Duringcombat. you can give yourself Heroic lnspi· ration whenever you start your turn without it.
LEVEL 15: SUPERIOR CRITlCAL
Your attack rolls with weapons and Unarmed Strikes can now score a Critical Hit on a roll of 18-20 on the d20.
LEVEL 18: SURVIVOR
You attain the pinnacle of resilience in battle. giving you these benefits.
Defy Death. You have Advantage on Death Saving Throws. Moreover, when you roll 18-20 on a Death Saving Throw, you gain the benefit of rollinga 20 on it.
Heroic Rally. At the start of each of your turns, you regain Hit Points equal to 5 plus your Constitu• tion modifier if you are Bloodied and have at least I Hit Point.
ELDRITCH KNIGHT
Support Combat Skills with Arcane Magic
Eldritch Knights combine the martial mastery com· mon to all Fighters with a careful study of magic.
Their spells both complement and extend their com-bat skills, providing additional protection to shore up their armor and also allowing them to engage many foes at once with explosive magic.


LEVEL 3: SPELLCASTING
You have learned to cast spells. See chapter 7 for the rules on spellcasting. The information below details how you use those rules as an Eldritch Knight.
Cantrips. You know two cantrips of your choice from the Wi?ard spell list (see that class's section for its list). Ray of Frost and Shocking Grasp are rec-ommended. Whenever you gain a Fighter level, you can replace one of these cantrips with another can-trip of your choice from the Wizard spell list.
When you reach Fighter level 10, you learn an-other Wizard cantrip of your choice.
Spell Slots. The Eldritch Knight Spellcasting table shows how many spell slots you have to cast your level I+ spells. You regain all expended slots when you finish a Long Rest.

ELDRITCH KNIGHT SPELLCASTING
Fighter	Spells	-SpellSlot.s per Spell Level-
Level	Prepared	1	2	3	4
3	3	2			
4	4	3			
5	4	3			
6	4	3			
7	5	4	2		
8	6	4	2		
9	6	4	2		
10	7	4	3		
11	8	4	3		
12	8	4	3		
13	9	4	3	2	
14	10	4	3	2	
15	10	4	3	2	
16	11	4	3	3	
17	11	4	3	3	
18	11	4	3	3	
19	12	4	3	3	
20	13	4	3	3	
Prepared Spells of Level/+. You prepare the list of level l+spells that are available for you to cast with this feature. To start, choose three level I spells from the Wizard spell list. Burning Hands.jump, and Shield are recommended.
The number of spells on your list increases as you gain Fighter levels, as shown in the Prepared Spells column of the Eldritch Knight Spellcasting table.
Whenever that number increases, choose additional spells from the Wizard spell list until the number
of spells on your list matches the number on the table. The chosen spells must be of a level for which
l.:	you have spell slots. For example, if you're a level 7
Fighter, your list of prepared spells can include five Wizard spells of levels I and 2 in any combination.
Changing Your Prepared Spells. Whenever you gain a Fighter level, you can replace one spell on your list with another Wizard spell for which you have spell slots.
Spellcasting Ability. Intelligence is your spellcast· ing ability for your Wizard spells.
Spellcasting Focus. You can use an Arcane Focus as a Spellcasting Focus for your Wizard spells.
LEVEL 3: WAR BOND
You learn a ritual that creates a magical bond be-tween yourself and one weapon. You perform the ritual over the course of I hour, which can be done duringa Short Rest.The weapon must be within your reach throughout the ritual, at the conclusion of which you touch the weapon and forge the bond. The bond fails if another Fighter is bonded to the weapon or if the weapon is a magic item to which someone else is attuned.
Once you have bonded a weapon to yourself, you can't be disarmed of that weapon unless you have the Incapacitated condition. If it is on the same plane of existence, you can summon that weapon as a Bonus Action, causing it to teleport instantly to your hand.
You can have up to two bonded ,veapons, but you can summon only one at a time with a Bonus Ac-tion. If you attempt to bond with a third weapon, you must break the bond with one of the other two.
LEVEL 7: WAR MAGIC
When you take the Attack action on your turn, you can replace one of the attacks with a casting of one of your Wizard cantrips that has a casting time of an action.
LEVEL 10: ELDRITCH STRIKE
You learn how to make your weapon strikes un-dercut a creature's ability to withstand your spells. When you hit a creature with an attack usinga weapon, that creature has Disadvantage on the next saving throw it makes against a spell you cast be-fore the end of your next turn.
LEVEL 15: ARCANE CHARGE
When you use your Action Surge, you can tele-port up to 30 feet to an unoccupied space you can see. You can teleport before or after the additional action.
LEVEL 18: IMPROno WAR MAGIC
When you take the Attack action on your turn, you can replace two of the attacks with a casting of one of your level 1 or level 2 Wizard spells that has a casting time of an action.
Psi WARRIOR		
Augment Physical Might with Psionic Power
Psi Warriors awaken the power of their minds to augment their physical might. They harness this psionic power to infuse their weaponstrikes, lash out with telekinetic energy, and create barriers of mental force.
LEVEL 3: PSIONIC POWER
You harbor a wellspring of psionic energy within yourself. It is represented by your Psionic Energy Dice. which fuel powers you have from this sub-class. The Psi Warrior Energy Dice tableshows the die size and number of these dice you have when you reach certain Fighter levels.

PSI WARRIOR ENERGY DICE

Fighter Level	Die Size	Number
3	D6	4
5	D8	6
9	D8	8
11	D10	8
13	D10	10
17	Dl2	12
Any features in this subclass that use a Psionic En-ergy Die useonly the dice from this subclass. Some of your powers expend the Psionic Energy Die, as specified in a power's description, and you can't use a power if it requires you to use a die when all your Psionic Energy Dice are expended.
You regain one of your expended Psionic Energy Dice when you finish a Short Rest, and you regain all of them when you finish a Long Rest.
Protective Field. When you or another creature you can see within 30 feet of you takes damage, you can take a Reaction to expend one Psionic Energy Die. roll the die. and reduce the damage taken by the number rolled plus your Intelligence modifier (minimum reduction ofl). as you create a momen-taryshield of telekinetic force.
Psio11ic Strike. You can propel your weapons with psionic force. Once on each of your turns. immedi· ately after you hit a target within 30 feet of yourself with an attack and deal damage to it with a weapon, you can expend one Ps.ionic Energy Die, rolling it and dealing Force damage to the target equal to the number rolled plus your Intelligence modifier.
Telekinetic Movement. You can move an object or a creature with your mind. As a Magic action, choose one target you can see within 30 feet of yourself; the target must be a loose object that is
Large or smaller or one willing creature other than you. You transport the target up to 30 feet to an



98	CHAPTER 3 I CHARACTER CLASSES
unoccupied space you can see. Alternatively,if the target is a Tinyobject, you can transport it to or From your hand.
Once you take this action, you can't do so again until you finish a Short or Long Rest unless you expend a Psionic Energy Die (no action required) to restore your use of it.
LEVEL 7: TELEKINETIO ADEPT
You have mastered new ways to use your telekinetic abilities. detailed below.
Psi-Powered Leap. As a Bonus Action, you gain a FlySpeed equal to twice your Speed until the end of the current turn. Once you take this Bonus Action. you can't doso again until you finish a Short or Long Rest unless you expend a Psionic Energy Die (no action required) to restore your use of it.
Telekinetic Tl1rust. When you deal damage to a target with your Psionic Strike, you can force the target to make a Strength saving throw (DC 8 plus your Intelligence modifier and Proficiency Bonus). On a failed save, you can give the target the Prone condition or transport it up to 10 feet horizontally.
LEVEL 10: GUARDED MIND
You have Resistance to Psychic damage. Moreover, if you start your turn with the Charmed or Fright-ened condition. you can expend a Psionic Energy Die (no action required) and end every effect on yourself giving you those conditions.
LEVEL 15: BULWARK OF FOROls
You can shield yourself and others with telekinetic force. As a Bonus Action, you can choose creatures, including yourself, within 30 feet of yourself, up
to a number of creatures equal to your Intelligence modifier (minimum of one creature). Each of the chosen creatures has Half Cover for I minute or un-til you have the Incapacitated condition.
Once you use this feature, you can't do so again until you finish a Long Rest unless you expend a Psionic Energy Die (no action required) to restore your use of it.
LEVEL 18: TELEKINETIC MASTER
You always have the Telekinesis spell prepared. With this feature, you can cast it without a spell slot or component?, and your spellcastingability for it is Intelligence. On each of your turns while you main-tain Concentration on it, including the turn when you cast it, you can make one attack with a weapon as a Bonus Action.
Once you cast the spell with this feature, you can't do so in this way again until you finish a Long Rest unless you expend a Psionic Energy Die (no action
?	required) to restore your useof it.
i
..


CORE MONK TRAITS
Primary Ability Hit Point Die
Saving Throw Proficiencies
Skill Proficiencies


Weapon Proficiencies


Tool Proficiencies


Armor Training Starting Equipment



Dexterity and Wisdom 08 per Monk level Strength and Dexterity

Choose 2: Acrobatics, Athlet• ics, History, Insight, Religion, or Stealth
Simple weapons and Martial weapons that have the Light property
Choose one type of Artisan's Tools or Musical Instrument (see chapter 6)
None
Choose A or 8: (A) Spear, S Daggers, Artisan's Tools or Musical Instrument cho• sen for the tool proficiency above, Explorer's Pack, and 11 GP; or (BJ SO GP
BECOMING A MONK ...
As A LŁvŁL I CflARACTl:R
    • Gain all the traits in the Core Monk Traits table.
    • Gain the Monk's level I features, which are listed in the Monk Features table.
AS A MULTlCLASS CHARACTER
    • Gain the Hit Point Die trait from the Core Monk Traits table.
    • Gain the Monk's level I features, whkh are listed in the Monk Features table.
MONK CLASS FEATURES
As a Monk, yougain the following class features when you reach the specified Monk levels. These features are listed in the Monk Features table.
LŁVEL I: MARTIALARTS
Your practice of martial arts gives you mastery of combat styles that use your Unarmed Strike and Monk weapons, which are the following:
    • Simple Melee weapons
    • Martial Melee weapons that have the Light property
You gain the following benefits while you are un-
ONKS USE RIGOROUS COMBAT TRAINING
and mental discipline to align themselves with the multiverse and focus their inter-
nal reservoirs of power. Different Monks conceptu-alize this power in various ways: as breath, energy, life force, essence, or self, for example. Whether channeled as a striking display of martial prowess or as a subtler manifestation of defense and speed, this power infuses all that a Monk does.
Monks focus their internal power to create ex-traordinary, even supernatural, effects. They chan-nel uncanny speed and strength into their attacks. with or without the use of weapons. In a Monk's hands, even the most basic weapons can become so-phisticated implements of combat mastery.
Many Monks find that a structured life of ascetic withdrawal helps them cultivate the physical and mental focus they need to harness their power.
Other Monks believe that immersing themselves in the vibrant confusion of life helps to fuel their de-termination and discipline.
Monks generally view adventures as tests of their physical and mental development. They are driven by a desire to accomplish a greater mission than merely slaying monsters and plundering treasure; they strive to turn themselves into living weapons.


armed or wielding only Monk weapons and you aren't wearing armor or wielding a Shield.
Bonus Unarmed Strike. You can make an Unarmed Strike as a Bonus Action.
Ma,·tial Arts Die. You can roll ld6 in place of the normal damage of your Unarmed Strike or Monk weapons. This die changes as you gain Monk levels, as shown in the Martial Artscolumn of the Monk Features table.
Dexterous Attacks. You can use your Dexterity modifier instead of your Strength modifier for the attack and damage rolls of your Unarmed Strikes and Monk weapons. In addition, when you use the Grapple or Shove option of your Unarmed Strike, you can use your Dexterity modifier instead of your Strength modifier to determine the save DC.
LEVEL I: UNARMORED DEFENSE
While you aren't wearing armor or wielding a Shield, your base Armor Class equals 10 plus your Dexterity and Wisdom modifiers.
LEVEL 2: MONK'S Focus
Your focus and martial training allow you to har-ness a well of extraordinary energy within yourself. This energy is represented by Focus Points. Your Monk level determines the number of points you have, as shown in the Focus Points column of the Monk Features table.



CHAPTER 3 I CHARACTER CLASSES	roI
MONK FEATURES
Proficiency	Martial	Focus	Unarmored
Level
l	Bonus
+2	Class Features
Martial Arts, Unarmored Defense	Arts
ld6	Points	Movement
2	+2	Monk's Focus, Unarmored Movement, Uncanny Metabolism	ld6	2	+10 ft.
3	+2	Deflect Attacks, Monk Subclass	ld6	3	+10 ft.
4	+2	Ability Score Improvement, Slow Fall	ld6	4	+10 ft.
5	+3	Extra Attack, Stunning Strike	ld8	5	+10 ft.
6	+3	Empowered Strikes, Subclass feature	ld8	6	+15 ft.
7	+3	Evasion	ld8	7	+15 ft.
8	+3	Ability Score Improvement	ld8	8	+15 ft.
9	+4	Acrobatic Movement	ld8	9	+15 ft.
10	+4	Heightened Focus, Self-Restoration	ld8	10	+20 ft.
11	+4	Subclass feature	ldl0	11	+20 ft.
12	+4	Ability Score Improvement	ldl0	12	+20 ft.
13	+5	Deflect Energy	ldl0	13	+20 ft.
14	+5	Disciplined Survivor	ldl0	14	+25 ft.
15	+5	Perfect Focus	ldl0	15	+25 ft.
16	+5	Ability Score Improvement	ldl0	16	+25 ft.
17	+6	Subclass feature	1d12	17	+25 ft.
18	+6	Superior Defense	1d12	18	+30 ft.
19	+6	Epic Boon	1d12	19	+30 ft.
20	+6	Body and Mind	1dl2	20	+30 ft.

You can expend these points to enhance or fuel certain Monk features. You start knowing three such features: Flurry of Blows, Patient Defense, and Step of the Wind, each of which is detailed below.
When you expend a Focus Point, it is unavailable until you finish a Short or Long Rest, at the end of which you regain all your expended points.
Some features that use Focus Points require your target to make a saving throw. The save DC equals 8 plus your Wisdom modifier and Proficiency Bonus.
Flurry of Blows. You can expend I Focus Point to make two Unarmed Strikes as a Bonus Action.
Patient Defense. You can take the Disengage ac· tion as a Bonus Action. Alternatively, you can ex· pend I Focus Point to take both the Disengage and the Dodge actions as a Bonus Action.
Step of the Wind. You can take the Dash action as a Bonus Action. Alternatively, you can expend I Focus Point to take both the Disengage and Dash actions as a Bonus Action, and your jump distance is doubled for the turn.
LEVEL 2: UNARMORED MOVEMENT
Your speed increases by 10 feet while you aren't wearing armor or wielding a Shield. This bonus increases when you reach certain Monk levels, as shown on the Monk F'eatures table.
LEVEL 2: UNCANNY METABOLISM
When you roll Initiative, you can regain all ex-pended Focus Points. When you do so, roll your Martial Arts die, and regain a number or Hit Points equal to your Monk level plus the 11umber rolled.
Once you use this Feature, you can't use it again until you finish a Long Rest.
LEVEL 3: DEFLECT ATTACKS
When an attack roll hits you and its damage in-cludes Bludgeoning, Piercing, or Slashing damage, you can take a Reaction to reduce the attack's total damage against you. The reduction equals ldlO plus your Dexterity modifier and Monk level.
If you r,educe the damage to 0, you can expend I
Focus Point to redirect some or the attack's force. Ir you do so, choose a creature you can see within 5 feet or yourselr ff the attack wasa melee attack or a creature you can see within 60 feet of yourself that isn't behind Total Cover ir the attack was a ranged attack. That creature must succeed on a Dexterity saving throw or take damage equal to two rolls or your Martial Arts die plus your Dexterity modifier. The damage is the same type dealt by the attack.

10'2	CHAPTER 3 I CHARACTER. CLASSES
LEVEL 3: MONK SUBCLASS
You gain a Monk subclass of your choice.The Warrior of Mercy, Warrior of Shadow, Warrior of the Elements, and Warrior of the Open Hand sub-classes are detailed after this class's description. A subclass is a specialization that grants you features at certain Monk levels. For the rest of your career, you gain each of your subclass's features that are of your Monk level or lower.
LEVEL 4: ABILITY SCORE IMPROVEMENT
You gain the Ability Score Improvement feat (see chapter 5) or another feat of your choice for which you qualify. You gain this feature again at Monk levels 8, 12, and 16.
LEVEL 4: SLOW FALL
You can take a Reaction when you fall to reduce any damage you take from the fall byan amount equal to five times your Monk level.
LEVEL 5: EXTRA ATTACK
You can attack twice instead of once whenever you take the Attack action on your turn.
LEVEL 5: STUNNING STRIKE
Once per turn when you hit a creature with a Monk weapon or an Unarmed Strike. you can expend 1 Focus Point to attempt a stunningstrike. The target must make a Constitution saving throw. On a failed save, the target has the Stunned condition until the start of your next turn. On a successful save, the target's Speed is halved until the start of your next turn, and the next attack roll made against the tar-get before then has Advantage.
LEVEL 6: EMPOWERED STRIKES
Whenever you deal damage with your Unarmed Strike, it can deal your choice of Force damage or its normal damage type.
LEVEL 7: EVASION
When you're subjected to an effect that allows you to make a Dexterity saving throw to take only half damage, you instead take no damage if you succeed on the saving throw and only half damage if you fail.
You don't benefit from this feature if you have the Incapacitated condition.
LEVEL 9: ACROBATIC MOVEMENT
While you aren't wearing armor or wielding a Shield, you gain the ability to move along vertical surfaces and across liquids on your turn without falling during the movement.
LEVEL 10: HEIGHTENED Focus
Your Flurry of Blows, Patient Defense, and Step of the Wind gain the following benefits.
Flurry of Blows. You can expend 1 Focus Point to use Flurry of Blows and make three Unarmed Strikes with it instead of two.
Patient Defense. When you expend a Focus Point to use Patient Defense, you gain a number of Tem-porary Hit Points equal to two rolls of your Martial Arts die.
Step of the Wind. When you expend a Focus Point
to use Step of the Wind, you can choose a willing creature within 5 feet of yourself that is Large or smaller. You move the creature with you until the end of your turn. The creature's movement doesn't provoke Opportunity Attacks.
LEVEL 10: SELF-RESTORATION
Through sheer force of will, you can remove one of the following conditions from yourself at the end of each of your turns: Charmed, Frightened, or Poisoned.
In addition, forgoing food and drink doesn't give you levels of Exhaustion.
LEVEL 13: DEFLECT ENERGY
You can now use your Deflect Attacks feature against attacks that deal any damage type. not just Bludgeoning, Piercing, or Slashing.
LEVEL 14: O1SCIPLINED SURVIVOR
Your physical and mental discipline grant you profi-ciency in all saving throws.
Additionally, whenever you make a saving throw and fail, you can expend I Focus Point to reroll it, and you must use the new roll.
LEVEL 15, PERFECT Focus
When you roll Initiative and don't use Uncanny Me-tabolism, you regain expended Focus Points until you have 4 if you have 3 or fewer.
LEVEL 18: SUPERIOR DEFENSE
At the start of your turn, you can expend 3 Focus Points to bolster yourself against harm for I min• ute or until you have the Incapacitated condition. During that time. you have Resistance to all damage except Force damage.
LEVEL 19: EPIC BOON
You gain an Epic Boon feat (see chapter S) or an-other feat of your choice for which you qualify. Boon of Irresistible Offense is recommended.
LEVEL 20: BODY AND MIND
You have developed your body and mind to new heights. Your Dexterity and Wisdom scores increase by 4, to a maximum of 25.
CHAPTER 3 I CHARACTER CLASSES	103
MONK SUBCLASSES
AMonk subclass is a specialization that grants you features at certain levels, as specified in the sub-class. This section presents the Warrior of Mercy. Warrior of Shadow, Warrior of the Elements, and Warrior of the Open Hand subclasses.
WARRIOR OF MERCY		
Manipulate Forces of Life and Death
Warriors of Mercy manipulate the life force of others. These Monks are wandering physicians, but they bringa swift:end to their enemies. They
oft:en wear masks. presenting themselves as faceless bringers of life and death.
LEVEL 3: HAND OF HARM
Once per turn when you hit a creature with an Unarmed Strike and deal damage, you can expend l Focus Point to deal extra Necrotic damage equal to one roll of your Martial Arts die plus your Wisdom modifier.
LEVEL 3: HAND OF HEALING
As a Magic action, you can expend I Focus Point to touch a creature and restore a number of Hit Points equal to a roll of your Martial Arts die plus your Wisdom modifier.
When you use your Flurry of Blows, you can re-place one of the Unarmed Strikes with a use of this feature without expending a Focus Point for the healing.
LEVEL 3: IMPLEMENTS OF MERCY
You gain proficiency in the Insight and Medicine skills and proficiency with the Herbalism Kit.
LEVEL 6: PHYSICIAN'S TOUCH
Your Hand of Harm and Hand of Healing improve, as detailed below.
Hand of Harm. When you use Hand of Harm on
a creature. you can also give that creature the Poi-soned condition until the end of your next turn.
Hand of Healing. When you use Hand of Healing, you can also end one of the following conditions on the creature you heal: Blinded, Deafened, Paralyzed, Poisoned, or Stunned.
LEVEL 11: FLURRY OF HEALING AND HARM
When you use Flurry of Blows, you can replace each of the Unarmed Strikes with a useof Hand of Healing without expending Focus Points for the healing.
In addition. when you make an Unarmed Strike with flurry of Blows and deal damage, you can use Hand of Harm with that strike without expending a Focus Point for Hand of Harm. You can still use Hand of Harm only once per turn.
You can use these benefits a total number of times equal to your Wisdom modifier (minimum of once). You regain all expended uses when you finish a Long Rest.
LEVEL 17: HAND OF ULTIMATE MERCY
Your mastery of lifeenergy opens the door to the ultimate mercy. As a Magic action, you can touch the corpse of a creature that died within the past 24 hours and expend 5 Focus Points. The creature then returns to life with a number of Hit Points equal
to 4d\0 plus your Wisdom modifier. If the creature died with any of the following conditions, the crea-ture revives with the conditions removed: Blinded, Deafened, Paralyzed, Poisoned, and Stunned.
Once you use this feature, you can't use it again until you finish a Long Rest.
WARRIOR OF SHADOW
Harness Shadow Power for Stealthand Subterfuge
Warriors of Shadow practice stealth and subter-fuge, harnessing the power of the Shadowfell. They are at home in darkness, able to draw gloom around themselves to hide, leap from shadow toshadow, and take on a wraithlike form.
LEVEL 3: SHADOW AR.TS
You have learned to draw on the power of the Shadowfell, gainfog the following benefits.
Darkness. You can expend I Focus Point to cast the Darkness spell without spell components. You can see within the spell's area when you cast it with
this feature. While the spell persists, you can move its area of Darkness to a space within 60 feet of yourself at the start of each of your turns.
Darkvision. You gain Darkvision with a range of 60 feet. If you already have Darkvision, its range increases by 60 feet.
Shadowy Figments. You know the Minor Illusion
spell. Wisdom is your spellcasting ability for it.
LEVEL 6: SHADOW STEP
While entirely within Dim Light or Darkness, you can use a Bonus Action to teleport up to 60 feet to an unoccupied space you can see that is also in Dim Light or Darkness. You then have Advantage on the next me.lee attack you make before the end of the current turn.
LEVEL 11: IMPROVED SHADOW STEP
You can draw on your Shadowfell connection to empower your telepo,·tation. When you use your Shadow Step, you can expend 1 Focus Point to re-move the requirement that you must start and end in Dim Light or Darkness for that use of the feature. As part of this Bonus Action, you can make an Un-armed Strike immediately after you teleport.
LEVEL 17: CLOAK OF SHADOWS
As a Magic action while entirely within Dim Light or Darkness, you can expend 3 Focus Points to shroud yourself with shadows for I minute, until you have the Incapacitated condition. or until you end your turn in Bright Light. While shrouded by these shadows, you gain the following benefits.
Invisibility, You have the Invisible condition.
Partially Incorporeal. You can move through occu-pied spaces as if they were Difficult Terrain. If you end your turn in such a space, you are shunted to the last unoccupied space you were in.
Shadow Flurry. You can use your Flurry of Blows without expending any Focus Points.
WARRIOR OF THE ELEMENTS
Wield Strikes and Bursts of Elemental Power
Warriors of the Elements tap into the power of the Elemental Planes. Harnessing their supernatural focus, these Monks momentarily tame the energy of the Elemental Chaos to empower themselves in and out of battle.
LEVEL 3:ELEMENTALATTUNEMENT
At the start of your turn, you can expend I Focus Point to imbue yourself with elemental energy. The energy lasts for 10 minutes or until you have the Incapacitated condition. You gain the following ben• efits while this feature is active.
Reach. When you make an Unarmed Strike, your reach is 10 feet greater than normal.as elemental energy extends from you.
Elemental Strikes. Whenever you hit with your Unarmed Strike, you can cause it to deal your choice of Acid, Cold, Fire, Lightning, or Thunder damage rather than its normal damage type. When you deal one of these types with it, you can also force the target to make a Strengthsaving throw. On a failed save, you can move the target up to 10 feet toward or away from you, as elemental energy swirls around it.
LEVEL 3:MANIPULATE ELEMENTS
You know the Elementa/ism spell. Wisdom is your spellcasting ability for it.
LEVEL 6: ELEMENTAL BURST
As a Magic action, you can expend 2 Focus Points to cause elemental energy to burst in a 20-foot-radius Sphere centered on a point within 120 feet of your· self. Choose a damage type: Acid, Cold, Fire, Light· ning, or Thunder.
Each creature in the Sphere must make a Dexter· ity saving throw. On a failed save, a creature takes damage of the chosen type equal to three rolls of your Martial Arts die. On a successfulsave, a crea· ture takes half as much damage.
LEVEL 11: STRIDE OF TRE ELEMENTS
While your Elemental Attunement is active, you also have a FlySpeed and a Swim Speed equal to your Speed.
LEVEL 17: ELEMENTAL EPITOME
While your Elemental Attunement is active, you also gain the following benefits.
Damage Resistance. You gain Resistance to one of the following damage types of your choice: Acid, Cold, Fire, Lightning, or Thunder. At the start of each of your turns, you can change this choice.
Destructive Stride. When you use your Step of the Wind, your Speed increases by 20 feet until the end

of the turn. For that duration, any creature of your choice takes damage equal to one roll of your Mar-tial Arts die when you enter a space within 5 feet of it. The damage type is your choice of Acid, Cold, Fire, Lightning, or Thunder. A creature can take this damage only once per turn.
Empowered Strikes. Once on each of your turns, you can deal extra damage to a target equal to one roll of your Martial Arts die when you hit it with an Unarmed Strike. The extra damage is the same type dealt by that strike.
WARRIOR OF THE OPEN HAND
Master Unarmed Combat Techniques
Warriors of the Open Hand are masters of unarmed combat. They learn techniques to push and trip their opponents and manipulate their own energy to protect themselves from harm.
LEVEL 3: OPEN HAND TE0HNIQ.UE
Whenever you hit a creature with an attack granted by your Flurry of Blows. you can impose one of the following effects on that target.
Addle. The targetcan't make Opportunity Attacks until thestart of its next turn.
Push. The target must succeed on a Strength sav-ing throw or be pushed up to 15 feet away from you.
Topple. The target must succeed on a Dexterity saving throw or have the Prone condition.
LEVEL 6: WH.OLENESS OF BODY
You gain the ability to heal yourself. As a Bonus Ac-tion, you can roll your Martial Arts die. You regain a number of Hit Points equal to the number rolled plus your Wisdom modifier (minimum of I Hit Point regained).
You can use this feature a number of times equal to your Wisdom modifier (minimum of once), and you regain all expended uses when you finish a Long Rest.
LEVEL II: FLEET STEP
When you take a Bonus Action other than Step of the Wind, you can also use Step of the Wind imme-diately after that Bonus Action.
LEVEL 17: QUIVERING PALM
You gain the ability to set up lethal vibrations in someone's body. When you hit a creature with an Unarmed Strike, you can expend 4 Focus Points to start these imperceptible vibrations, which last for a number of days equal to your Monk level.The vibrations are harmless unless you take an action to end them. Alternatively, when you take the At-tack action on your turn, you can forgo one of the attacks to end the vibrations. To end them, you and the target must be on the same plane of existence.
When you end them, the target must make a Consti-tution saving throw, taking l0dl2 Force damage on a failed save or half as much damage on a successful one.
You can have only one creature under the effect of this feature at a time. You can end the vibrations harmlessly (no action required).




CORE PALADIN TRAITS
    • Gain the Paladin's level I features, which are listed
Primary Ability
Hit Point Die
Saving Throw Proficiencies
Skill Proficiencies


Weapon Proficiencies
Strength and Charisma 010 per Paladin level Wisdom and Charisma
Choose 2: Athletics, Insight, Intimidation, Medicine, Persuasion, or Religion
Simple and Martial weapons
in the Paladin Features table. See the multiclass-ing rules in chapter 2 to determine your available spell slots.
PALADIN CLASS FEATURES
As a Paladin, you gain the foUowing class features when you reach the specified Paladin levels. These features are listed in the Paladin Features table.
LEVE:L I: LAY ON HANDS
Armor Training	Light, Medium, and Heavy
armor and Shields Starting Equipment	Choose A or 8: (A) Chain
Mail, Shield, Longsword,
6 Javelins, Holy Symbol, Priest's Pack, and 9 GP; or
(8) lS0GP


ALADINS ARE UNITED BY THEIR OATHS TO
stand against the forces of annihilation and corruption. Whether sworn before a god's
altar, in a sacred glade before nature spirits, or in a moment of desperation and grief with the dead as the only witnesses. a Paladin's oath is a powerful bond. It is a source of power that turns a devout warrior into a blessed champion.
Paladins train to learn the skills of combat, mas-teringa val'iety of weapons and armor. Even so, their martial skills are secondary to the magical power they wield: power to heal the injured, smite their foes, and protect the helpless and those who fight at their side.
Almost bydefinition, the life of a Paladin is an adventuring life, for every Paladin lives on the front lines of the cosmic struggle against annihilation.
Fighters are rare enough among the ranks of a world's armies, but even fewer people can claim the calling of a Paladin. When they do receive the call, these blessed folk turn from their former occupa-tions and take up arms and magic.
BECOMING A PALADIN ... ------
As A LEVEL I CHARACTER
    • Gain all the traits in the Core Paladin Traits table.
    • Gain the Paladin's level 1 features, which are listed in the Paladin Features table.
AS A MULT!CLASS CHARACTER
    • Gain the following traits from the Core Paladin Traits table: Hit Point Die, proficiency with Ma,? tial weapons, and training with Light and Medium armor and Shields.
•
Your blessed touch can heal wounds. You have a pool of healing power that replenishes when you finish a Long Rest. With that pool, you can restore a total number of Hit Points equal to five times your Paladin level.
Asa Bonus Action, you can touch a creature (which could be yourself) and draw power from the pool of healing to restore a number of Hit Points to that creature, up to the maximum amount remain-ing in the pool.
You can also expend 5 Hit Points from the pool of healing power to remove the Poisoned condition from the creature; those points don't also restore Hit Points to the creature.
L.E:VE:L l: SPE:LLCASTING
You have learned to cast spells through prayer and meditation. See chapter 7 for the rules on spellcast-ing. The information below details how you use those rules with Paladin spells, which appear in the Paladin spell list later in the class's description.
Spell Slots. The Paladin Features table shows how manyspell slots you have to cast your level I• spells. You regain all expended slots when you finish a Long Rest.
Prepared Spells of Level I+. You prepare the list of level I+spells that are available for you to cast with this feature. To start, choose two level I Paladin spells. Heroism and SearingSmite are recommended.
The number of spells on you.r list increases as you gain Paladin levels, as shown in the Prepared Spells column of the Paladin Features table. When-ever that number increases, choose additional Paladin spells until the number of spells on your list matches the number in the Paladin Features table. The chosen spells must be of a level for which you havespell slots. For example, if you're a level 5 Paladin, your list of prepared spells can include six Paladin spells of level 1 or 2 in any combination.
IJanother Paladin feature gives you speUs that you always have prepared, those spells don't count against the number of spells you can prepare with
this feature, but those spells otherwise count as Paladin spells for you.
CHAPTER 3 I CHARACTER CLASS'ES	109
PALADIN FEATURES
Proficiency	Channel Prepared	-Spell Slots per Spell level-






























Changing Your Prepared Spells. Whenever you flnish a Long Rest. you can replace one spell on your list with another Paladin spell for which you have spell slots.
Spellcasti11g Ability. Charisma is your spellcasting ability for your Paladin spells.
Spellcasting Focus. You can use a Holy Symbol as a Spellcasting Focus for your Paladin spells.
LEVEL l: WEAPON MASTERY
Your training with weapons allows you to use the masteryproperties of two kinds of weapons of your choice with which you have proflciency, such as Longswords and Javelins.
Whenever you finish a Long Rest, you can change the kinds of weapons you chose. For example, you couldswitch to using the mastery properties of Hal-berds and Flails.
LEVEL 2: FIGHTING STYLE
You gain a Fighting Style feat of your choice (see chapter S for feats). Instead of choosing one of those feats. you can choose the option below.
Blessed Warrior. You learn two Cleric cantrips
of your choice (see the Cleric class's section for a list of Cleric spells).Guida11ce and Sacred Flame are






























recommended. The chosen cantrips count as Pala-din spells for you, and Charisma is your spellcasting ability for them. Whenever you gain a Paladin level, you can replace one of these cantrips with another Cleric cantrip.
LEVEL 2: PALADIN'S SMITE
You always have the Divine Smite spell prepared. In addition, you can cast it without expending a spell slot, but you must finish a Long Rest before you can cast it in this wayagain.
LEVEL 3: CHANNEL DIVINITY
You can channel divine energy directly from the Outer Planes, using it to Fuel magical effects. You start with one such effect: Divine Sense, which is described below. Other Paladin features give addi-tional Channel Divinity effect options. Each time you use thisclass's Channel Divinity, you choose which effect from this class to create.
You can use this class's Channel Divinjty twice. You regain one of its expended uses when you finish a Short Rest, and you regain all expended uses when you finish a Long Rest. You gain an additional use when you reach Paladin level II.


no	CHAPTER 3 I CHARACTER CLASSES
If a Channel Divinity effect requires a saving throw, the DC equals the spell save DC from this class's Spellcasting feature.
Divine Sense. Asa Bonus Action, you can open your awareness to detect Celestials, Fiends, and Undead. For the next 10 minutes or until you have the Incapacitated condition. you know the location of any creature of those types within 60 feet of yourself, and you know its creature type. Within the same radius,you also detect the presence of any place or object that has been consecrated or dese• crated, as with the Hallow spell.
LEVEL 3: PALADIN SUBCLASS
Yougain a Paladin subclass of your choice. The Oath of Devotion, Oath of Glory, Oath of the An· cients, and Oath of Vengeance subclasses are de• tailed after this class's description. A subclass is a specialization that grants you features at certain Paladin levels. For the rest of your career.you gain each of your subclass's features that are of your Pal• adin level or lower.
LEVEL 4: ABILITY SCORE IMPROVEMENT
You gain the Ability Score Improvement feat (see chapter 5) or another feat of your choice for which you qualify. You gain this feature again at Paladin levels 8, 12, and 16.
LEVEL 5: EXTRA ATTACK
You can attack twice instead of once whenever you take the Attack actio.n on your turn.
LEVEL 5: FA1THFUL STEED
You can call on the aid of an otherworldly steed. You always have the Find Steed spell prepared.
You can also cast the spell once without expend• ing a spell slot, and you regain the ability to do so when you finish a Long Rest.
LEVEL 6: AURA OF PROTECTION
You radiate a protective, unseeable aura in a 10-foot Emanation that originates from you. The aura is in-active while you have the Incapacitated condition.
You and your allies in the aura gain a bonus to saving throws equal to your Charisma modifier (minimum bonus of •l).
If another Paladin is present, a creature can ben-efit from only one Aura of Protection at a time; the creature chooses which aura while in them.
LEVEL 9: ABJURE FOES
As a Magic action, you can expend one use of this class's Chan.nel Divinity to overwhelm foes with awe. As you present your Holy Symbol or weapon,


BREAKING YOUR OATH
A Paladin tries to hold to the highest standards of conduct, but even the most dedicated are fallible. Sometimes a Paladin transgresses their oath.
A Paladin who has broken a vow typically seeks absolution, spending an all-night vigil as a sign of penitence or undertaking a fast. After a riteof forgiveness, the Paladin starts fresh.
If your Paladin unrepentantly violates their oath, talk to your DM. Your Paladin should probably take a more appropriate subclass or even aban-don the class and adopt another one.

you can target a oumber of creatures equal to your Charisma modifier (minimum of one creature) that you can see within 60 feet of yourself. Each target must succeed on a Wisdom saving throw or have the Frightened condition for I minute or until it takes any damage. While Frightened in this way, a ta,·get can do only one of the following on its turns: move. take an action, or take a Bonus Action.
LEVEL 10: AURA OF COURAGE
You and your allies have Immunity to the Fright-ened condition while in your Aura of Protection. If a Frightened ally enters the aura, that condition has no effect on that ally while there.
LEVEL 11: RADIANT STRIKES
Your strikes now carry supernatural power. When you hit a target·with an attack roll using a Melee weapon or an Unarmed Strike, the target takes an extra ld8 Radiant damage.
LEVEL 14: RESTORING TOUCH
When you use Lay On Hands on a creature, you can also remove one or more of the following conditions from the creature: Blinded, Charmed, Deafened, Frightened. Paralyzed, or Stunned. You must ex-pend 5 Hit Points from the healing pool of Lay On Hands for each of these conditions you remove; those points don't also restore Hit Points to the creature.
LEVEL 18: AURA ExPANSJON
Your Aura of Protection is now a 30-foot Emanation.
LEVEL 19: EPIC BOON
You gain an Epic Boon feat (see chapter 5) or an-other feat of your choice for which you qualify. Boon of Truesight is recommended.







CHAPTER 3 I CHARACTER Cl.ASSES	J[l


PALADIN SPELL LIST
This section presents the Paladin spell list. The spells are organized by spell level and then alpha-
betized, and eachspell's school of magic is listed. In the Special column, C means the spell requires
Concentration. R means it's a Ritual, andM means it requires a specific Material component.

LEVEL 1 PALADIN SPELLS

Spell	School	Special	
Bless	Enchantment	C,M	
Command	Enchantment		
Compelled Duel	Enchantment	C	
Cure Wounds	Abjuration		
Detect Evil and Good	Divination	C	
Detect Magic	Divination	C, R	
Detect Poison and Disease	Divination	C,R	
Divine Favor	Transmutation				
Divine Smite	Evocation				
Heroism	Enchantment	C			
Protection from Evil and	Abjuration	C,M			
Good			Spell	School	Special
Purify Food and Drink	Transmutation	R	Daylight	Evocation	
Searing Smite	Evocation		Dispel Magic	Abjuration	
Shield of Faith	Abjuration	C	Elemental Weapon	Transmutation	C
Thunderous Smite	Evocation		Magic Circle	Abjuration	M
Wrathful Smite	Necromancy		Remove Curse	Abjuration	

LEVEL 2 PALADIN SPELLS			Revivify	Necromancy	M
Spell	School	Special	LEVEL 4 PALADIN SPELLS		
Aid	Abjuration		Spell	School	Special
Find Steed	Conjuration		Aura of Life	Abjuration	C
Gentle Repose	Necromancy	R, M	Aura of Purity	Abjuration	C
Lesser Restoration	Abjuration		Banishment	Abjuration	C
Locate Object	Divination	C	Death Word	Abjuration	
Magic Weapon	Transmutation		Locate Creature	Divination	C
Prayer of Healing	Abjuration		Staggering Smile	Enchantment	

LEVEL 5 PALADIN SPELLS
Spell	School	Special
Banishing Smite	Conjuration	C


LEVEL 3 PALADIN SPELLS			Circle of Power
Destructive Wave	Abjuration
Evocation	C
Spell	School	Special	Dispel Evil and Good	Abjuration	C
Aura of Vitality
Blinding Smite	Abjuration
Evocation	C	Geas
Greater Restoration	Enchantment
Abjuration	
M
Create Food and Water	Conjuration		Raise Dead	Necromancy	M
Crusader's Montie	Transmutation	C	Summon Celestial	Conjuration	C,M

(12	CHAPTER 3 I CHARACTER CLASSES

PALADIN SUBCLASSES
A Paladin subclass is a specialization that grants you features at certain Paladin levels, as specified in the subclass. This section presents the Oath of Devotion, Oath of Glory, Oath of the Ancients, and Oath of Vengeance subclasses.
Each of these subclasses represents a body of oaths that a Paladin begins taking upon joining the class. The final oath, taken at level 3, is the culmi· nation of a Paladin's training. Some characters with this class don't consider themselves true Paladins until they've reached level 3 and made this oath. For others, the swearing of the oath is a formality. an official stamp on what was already in their hearts.
OATH OF DEVOTION
Uphold the Ideals of justice and Order
The Oath of Devotion binds Paladins to the ideals of justice and order. These Paladins meet the ar-chetype of the knight in shining armor. They hold themselves to the highest standards of conduct, and some-for better or worse-hold the rest of the world to the same standards.
Many whoswear this oath are devoted to gods of law and good and use their gods' tenets as the
measure of personal devotion. Others hold angels as their ideals and incorporate images of angelic wings into their helmets or coats of arms.
These paladins share the following tenets:
    • Let your word be your promise.
    • Protect the weak and never fear to act.
    • Let your honorable deeds be an example.
LEVEL 3: OATH OF DEVOTION SPELLS
The magic of your oath ensures you always have certain spells ready; when you reach a Paladin level specified in the Oath of Devotion Spells table, you thereafter always have the listed spells prepared.

OATH OF DEVOTION SPELLS
Paladin Level Spells
3		Protection from Evil and Good, Shield of Faith
5	Aid, Zone of Truth
9	Beacon of Hope, Dispel Magic
13		Freedom of Movement, Guardian of Faith
17	Commune, Flame Strike
LEVEL 3: SACRED WEAPON
When you take the Attack action, you can expend one use of your Channel Divinity to imbue one Melee weapon that you are holding with positive energy. For 10 minutes or until you use this feature
again, you add your Charisma modifier to attack rolls you make with that weapon (minimum bonus of +I). and each time you hit with it, you cause it to deal its normal damage type or Radiant damage.
The weapon also emits Bright Light in a 20-foot radius and Dim Light 20 feet beyond that.
You can end this effect early (no action requfred). This effect also ends if you aren't carrying the weapon.
LEVEL 7: AURA OF DEVOTION
You and your allies have Immunity to the Charmed condition while in your Aura of Protection. If a Charmed aJly enters the aura, that condition has no effect on that ally ,vhile there.
LEVEL 15: SMITE OF PROTECTION
Your magical smite now radiates protective energy. Whenever you cast Divine Smite, you and your allies have Half Cover while in your Aura of Protection. The aura has this benefit until the start of your next turn.
LEVEL 20: HOLY NIMBUS
As a Bonus Action, you can imbue your Aura of Protection with holy power, granting the benefits below for 10 minutes or until you end them (noac-tion required). Once you use this feature, you can't use it again until you finish a Long Rest. You can also restore your use ofit by expending a level 5 spell slot (no action required).
Holy Ward. You have Advantage on any saving throw you are forced to make by a Fiend or an Undead.
Radiant Damage. Whenever an enemy starts its turn in the aura, that creature takes Radiant dam· ageequal to your Charisma modifier plus your Pro• ficiency Bonus.
Sunlight. The aura is filled with Bright Light that issunlight.
OATH OF GLORY		
Strive for the Heights of Heroism
Paladins who take the Oath of Glory believe they and their companions are destined to achieve glory through deeds of heroism. They train diligently and encourage their companions, so they're all ready when destiny calls.
These paladins share the following tenets:
Endeavor to be known by your deeds.
    • Face hardships with courage.
    • lnspire others to strive for glory.
LEVEL 3: INSPIRING SMITE
Immediately aA:er you cast Divine Smite, you can	•
expend one use of your Channel Divinity and
distribute Temporary Hit Points to creatures of your choice within 30 feet of yourself, which can include you. The total number of Temporary Hit Points equals 2d8 plus your Paladin level. divided among the chosen creatures however you like.
LEVEL 3: OATH OF GLORY SPELLS
The magic of your oath ensures you always have certain spells ready; when you reach a Paladin level specified in the Oath of Glory Spells table, you thereafter always have the listed spells prepared.

OATH OF GLORY SPELLS
Paladin Level Spells
3	Guiding Bolt, Heroism
S	Enhance Ability, MagicWeapon
9	Hoste, Protectionfrom Energy
13	Compulsion, Freedom of Movement
17	Legend Lore, Yolande'sRegal Presence

LEVEL 3: PEERLESS ATHLETE
As a Bonus Action. you can expend one use of your Channel Divinity to augment your athleticism. For I hour, you have Advantage on Strength (Athletics) and Dexterity (Acrobatics) checks, and the distance of your Longand High jumps increases by 10 feet (this extra distance costs movement as normal).
LEVEL 7: AURA OF ALACRITY
Your Speed increases by 10 feet.
In addition, whenever an ally enters your Aura of Protection for the first time on a turn or starts their turn there, the ally's Speed increases by IO feet until the end of their next turn.
LEVEL 15: GLORIOUS DEFENSE
You can turn defense into a suddenstrike. When you or another creature you can see within 10 feet of you is hit byan attack roll, you can take a Reac-tion to grant a bonus to the target's AC against that attack. potentially causing it to miss. The bonus equals your Charisma modifier (minimum of +I). If the attack misses, you can make one attack with a weapon against the attacker as part of this Reaction if the attacker is within your weapon's range.
You can use this feature a number of times equal to your Charisma modifier (minimum of once), and you regain all expended uses when you finish a Long Rest.
LEVEL 20: LIVING LEGEND
You can empower yourself with the legends-whether true or exaggerated-of your great deeds. As a Bonus Action, you gain the benefits below for 10 minutes. Once you use this feature, you can't use
it again until you finish a Long Rest. You can also restore your use of it byexpending a level 5 spell slot (no action required).
Charismatic. You are blessed with an otherworldly presence and have Advantage on all Charisma checks.
Saving Throw Reroll. If you fail a saving throw, you can take a Reaction to reroll it. You must use this new roll.
Unerring Strike. Once on each of your turns when you make an attack roU with a weapon and miss, you can cause that attack to hit instead.
OATH OF THE ANCIENTS		
Preserve Life and Light in the World
The Oath of the Ancients is as old as the first elves. Paladins who swear this oath cherish the light: they love the beautiful and life-giving things of the world more than any principles of honor, courage, and justice. Theyoften adorn their armor and clothing with images of growing things-leaves. antlers, or flowers-to reflect their commitment to preserving life and light.
These paladins share the following tenets:
    • Kindle the light of hope.
    • Shelter life.
    • Delight in art and laughter.
LEVEL 3: NATURE'S WRATH
As a Magic action, you can expend one use of your Channel Divinity to conjure spectral vines around nearby creatures. Each creature of your choice that you can see within IS feet of yourself must succeed on a Strength saving throw or have the Restrained condition for l minute. A Restrained creature re-peats the save at the end of each of its turns, ending the effect on itself on a success.
LEVEL 3: OATH OF THE ANCIENTS SPELLS
The magic of your oath ensures you always have certain spells ready; when you reach a Paladin level specified in the Oath of the Ancients Spells table. you thereafter always have the listed spells prepared.

OATH OF THE ANCIENTS SPELLS
Paladin Level Spells
3	Ensnaring Strike, Speak with Animals
5	Misty Step, Moonbeam
9	Plant Growth, Protectionfrom Energy
13	Ice Storm, Stoneskin
17	Commune with Nature, Tree Stride





CHAPTER 3 I CHARACTER CLASSES	U5


LEVEL 7: AUltA OFWARDING
Ancient magic lies so heavily upon you that it forms an eld.ritch ward, blunting energy from beyond the Material Plane; you and your allies have Resistance to Necrotic, Psychic, and Radiant damage while in your Aura of Protection.
LEVEL 15, UNDYING SENTINEL
When you are reduced to 0 Hit Points and not killed outright, you can drop to 1 Hit Point instead, and you regain a number of Hit Points equal to three times your Paladin level.Once you use this feature, you can't doso again until you finish a Long Rest.
Additionally. you can't be aged magically, and you cease visibly aging.
LEVEL 20:ELDER CHAMPION
As a Bonus Action, you can imbue your Aura of Protection with primal power, granting the benefits below for I minute or until you end them (no action required). Once you use this feature, you can't use it again until you finish a Long Rest. You can also re· store your use of it by expending a level S spell slot (no action required).
Diminish Defiance. Enemies in the aura have Dis-advantage on saving throws against your spells and
Channel Divinity options.
Regeneration. At the start of each of your turns, you regain 10 Hit Points.
Swift Spells. Whenever you cast a spell that has
a casting time of an action, you can cast it usinga Bonus Action instead.
OATH OFVENGEANCE
Punish Evildoers at Any Cost
The Oath of Vengeance is a solemn commitment to punish those who have committed grievously evil acts. When evil armies slaughter helpless villagers, when a tyrant defies the will of the gods, when a thieves' guild grows too violent, when a dragon rampages through the countryside-at times like these, paladins arise and swear an Oath of Ven· geance to set right what has gone wrong.
These paladins share the following tenets:
    • Show the wicked no mercy.
    • Fight injustice and its causes.
    • Aid those harmed by injustice.
LEVEL 3: OATH OFVENGEANCE SPELLS
The magic of your oath ensures you always have certain spells ready; when you reach a Paladin level specified in the Oath of Vengeance Spells table, you thereafter always have the listed spells prepared.


OATH OF VENGEANCE SPELLS
Paladin Level Spells
3	Bane, Hunter's Mark
5	Hold Person, Misty Step
9	Haste, Protection from Energy
13	Banishment, Dimension Door
17	Hold Monster, Scrying

LEVEL 3: Vow OF ENMITY
When you take the Attack action, you can expend one use of your Channel Divinity to utter a vow of enmity against a creature you can see within 30 feet of yourself. You have Advantage on attack rolls against the creature for l minute or until you use this feature again.
If the creature drops to 0 Hit Points before the vow ends, you can transfer the vow to a differ·
?nt cNatut?'H\t\\\n 50 f<!.?t <lf y<lu<t<!.\f (n<l11.cti<ln
required).
LEVEL 7: RELENTLESS AVENGER
Your supernatural focus helps you close off a foe's retreat. When you hit a creature with an Opportu-nity Attack, you can reduce the creature's Speed to 0 until the end of the current turn. You can then move up to half your Speed as part of the same Reaction. This movement doesn't provoke Opportu-nity Attacks.
LEVEL 15: SOUL OF VENGEANCE
Immediately after a creature under the effect of your Vow of Enmity hits or misses with an attack roll, you can take a Reaction to make a melee attack against that creature if it's within range.
LEVEL 20, AVENClNC ANCEL
As a Bonus Action, you gain the benefits below for 10 minutes or until you end them (no action re-quired). Once you use thjs feature, you can't use it again until you finish a Long Rest. You can also re-store your use ofit byexpending a level 5 spell slot (no action required).
Flight. You sprout spectral wings on your back, have a Fly Speed of 60 feet, and can hover.
Frightful Aura. Whenever an enemy st.arts its turn in your Aura of Protection, that creature must succeed on a Wisdom saving throw or have the Frightened condition for I minute or until it takes any damage. Attack rolls against the Frighteaed creature have Advantage.





CORE RANGER TRAITS
RANGER CLASS FEATURES
Primary Ability
Hit Point Die
Saving Throw Proficiencies
Skill Proficiencies
Dexterity and Wisdom D10 per Ranger level Strength and Dexterity
Choose 3: Animal Handling, Athletics, Insight, Investi-gation, Nature, Perception, Stealth, or Survival
As a Ranger, you gain the following class features when you reach the specified Ranger levels. These features are listed in the Ranger Features table.
LEVELi: SPELLCASTING
You bave learned to channel the magical essence of nature to cast spells. See chapter 7 for the rules on spellcasting. The information below details how you use those rules with Ranger spells, which appear in
Weapon Proficiencies Simple and Martial weapons Armor Training	Light and Medium armor
and Shields
Starting Equipment	Choose A or B: (A) Studded
Leather Armor, Scimitar, Shortsword, Longbow, 20 Arrows, Quiver, Druidic Focus (sprig of mistletoe), Explorer's Pack, and 7 GP; or
(8) 150 GP


AR FROM BUSTLING CITIES, AMID THE
trees of trackless forests and across wide plains, Rangers keep their unending watch in
the wilderness. Rangers learn to track their quarry as a predator does, moving stealthily through tbe wilds and hiding themselves in brush and rubble.
Thanks to their connection with nature, Rangers can also cast spells that harness primal powers of the wilderness. A Ranger's talents and magic are honed with deadly focus to protect the world from the ravages of monsters and tyrants.
BECOMING A RANGER ...		
As A LEVEL I CHARACTER
    • Gain all the traits in the Core Ranger Traits table.
    • Gain the Ranger's level I features, which are listed in the Ranger Features table.
AS A MULTlCLASS CHARACTER
, Gain the following traits from the Core Ranger Traits table: Hit Point Die, proficiency with Mar-tial weapons, proficiency in one skill of your choice from the Ranger's skill list, and training with L,ight and Medium armor and Shields.
    • Gain the Ranger's level I features, whjch are listed in the Ranger Features table. See the multiclass-ing rules in chapter 2 to determine your available spell slots.
the Ranger spell list later in the class's description.
Spell Slots. The Ranger Features tableshows how many spell slots you have to cast your level I+ spells. You regain all expended slots when you finish a L,ong Rest.
Prepared Spells of Level 1+. You prepare the list of level I+spells that are available for you to cast with this feature. To start, choose two level l
Ranger spells. Cure Wounds and Ensnaring Strike are recommended.
The number of spells on your list increases as
you gain Ranger levels, as shown in the Prepared Spells column of the Ranger Features table. When-ever that number increases, choose additional Ranger spells until the number of spells on your list matches the number in the Ranger Features table.The chosen spells must be of a level for which you have spell slots. For example, if you're a level 5 Ranger, your list of prepared spells can include six Ranger spells of level I or 2 in anycombination.
Lf another Ranger feature gives you spells that you always have prepared, those spells don't count against the number of spells you can prepare with this feature, but those spells otherwise count as Ranger spells for you.
Changing Your Prepared Spells. Whenever you finish a Long Rest, you can replace one spell on your list with another Ranger spell for which you have spell slots.
Spellcasl:ing Ability. Wisdom is your spellcasting ability for your Ranger spells.
Spellcasting Focus. You can use a Druidic Focus as a Spellcasting focus for your Ranger spells.
LEVEL!: fAVORE0 ENEMY
You always have the Hunter's Mark spell prepared. You can cast it twice without expending a spell slot, and you regain all expended uses of this ability whenyou firlish a L,ong Rest.
The number of times you can cast the spell with· out a spell slot increases when you reach certain Ranger levels, as shown in the Favored Enemy col-umn of the Range,r Features table.





CHAPTER 3 I CHARACTER CLASSŁ$	U9
RANCER FEATURES
Proficiency	Favored  Prepared	-Spell Slots per Spell Level-





























LEVEL I: WEAPON MASTERY
Your training with weapons allows you to use the mastery properties of two kinds of weapons of your choice with which you have proficiency, such as Longbows and Shortswords.
Whenever you finish a Long Rest, you can change the kinds of weapons you chose. For example, you could switch to using the mastery properties of Scimitars and Longswords.
LEVEL 2: DEFT EXPLORER
Thanks to your travels, you gain the following benefits.
Expertise. Choose o.ne of you.r skill proficiencies
with which you lack Expertise. You gain E,cpertise in that skill.
Languages. You know two languages ofyou.r choice from the language tables in chapter 2.
LEVEL 2: FIGHTING STYLE
You gain a Fighting Style feat of your choice (see chapter 5). Instead of choosing one of those feats, you can choose the option below.
Druidic Warrior. You learn two Druid cantrips of your choice (see the Druid class's section for a list of
Druid spells). Guidance and Starry Wisp are recom-mended. The chosen cantrips count as Ranger spells for you, and Wisdom is your spellcasting ability for them. Whenever you gain a Ranger level, you can replace one of these cantrips with another Druid cantrip.
LEVEL 3: RANGER SUBCLASS
You gain a Ranger subclass of your choice. The Beast Master, F'ey Wanderer, Gloom Stalker. and Hunter subclasses are detailed after this class's de-scription. A subclass is a specialization that grants you features at certain Ranger levels. For the rest of your career, you gain each of your subclass's fea-tures that a.re of your Ranger level or lower.
LEVEL 4: ABILITY SCORE IMPROVEMENT
You gain the Ability Score Improvement feat (see chapter 5) or another feat of your choice for which you qualify. You gain this feature again at Ranger levels 8, 12, and 16.
LEVEL 5: EXTRA ATTACK
You can attack twice instead of once whenever you take the Attack action on your turn.




120	CHAPTER 3 I CHARACTEl! CLASSES
LEVEL 6: ROVING	LEVEL 1 RANGER SPELLS
Your Speed increases by lO feet while you aren't	 Spell	School	Special wearing Heavy armor. You also have a Climb Speed	Alarm
and a Swim Speed equal to your Speed.
Animal Friendship	Enchantment
LEVEL 9: EXPERTISE	Cure Wounds	Abjuration Choose two of your skill proficiencies with which	 Detect Magi,
you lack Expertise. Yougain Expertise in thoseskills.
Detect Poison and Disease	Divination	C,R
LEVELIO:TrRELESS	Ensnaring Strike	Conjuration	C Primal forces now help fuel you on your journeys,
granting you the following benefits.
Entangle	Conjuration	C
Temporary Hit Points. As a Magic action, you can		Fog Cloud	Conjuration	C give yourself a number of Temporary Hit Points	Goodberry	Conjuration
equal to ld8 plus your Wisdom modifier (minimum	Hail of Thorns	Conjuration
of 1). You can use this action a number of times
equal to your Wisdom modifier (minimum of once),	Hunter's Mark	Divination	C
and you regain all expended uses when you finish a	Jump	Transmutation
Long Rest.	Longstrider	Transmutation
Decrease Exhaustion. Whenever you finish a Short
Rest, your Exhaustion level. if any, decreases by I..
LEVEL 13: RELENTLESS HUNTER	LEVEL 2 RANGER SPELLS
Taking damage can't break youJ·Concentration on	Spell	School	Special
Hunter's Mark.	Aid	Abjuration
LEVEL 14: NATURE'S VEIL	Animal Messenger	 Enchantment	R You invoke spirits of nature to magically hide your-	 Barkskin	Transmutation
self. As a Bonus Action, you can give yourself the	Beast Sense
Invisible condition until the end of your next turn.
You can use this feature a number of times equal	Cordon of Arrows	Transmutation
to your Wisdom modifier (minimum of once), and	Darkvision	Transmutation
you regain all expended uses when you finish a	 Enhance Ability	Transmutation	C Long Rest.	Find Traps	 Divination
LEVEL 17: PRECISE HUNTER	Gust of Wind	 Evocation	C You have Advantage on attack rolls against the	 Lesser Restoration	Abjuration
creature currently marked by your Hunter's Ma,·k.
Locate Animals or Plants	Divination	R
LEVEL 18: FERAL SENSES	 Locate Object	 Divination	C Your connection to the forces of nature grants you	Magic Weapon	Transmutation
Blindsight with a range of 30 feet.
Pass without Trace	Abjuration	C
LEVEL 19: EPIC BOON	Protection from Poison	Abjuration You gain an Epic Boon feat (see chapter 5) or an-
other feat of your choice for which you qualify.
Boon of Dimensional Travel is recommended.	Spike Growth	Transmutation	C
Svmmon Beast	Conjuration	C,M
LEVEL 20: FOE SLAYER
The damage die of your Hunter's Mark is a d10 rather	LEVEL 3 RANGER SPELLS
than a d6.
Spell	School	Special
RANGER SPELL LIST	 Conjure Animals	Conjuration	C This section presents the Rangerspell list. The	Conjure Barrage	Conjuration
spells are organized by spell level and then alpha-	Daylight	Evocation
betized, and each spell's school of magic is listed.
ln the Special column, C means the spell requires
Dispel Magic	Abjuration
Concentratfon, R means it's a Ritual, and M means it	 Elemental Weapon	 Transmutation	C requires a specific Material component.	Lightning Arrow	Transmutation

CHAPTER 3 I CHARACTER CLASSES	r21



































Spell
Meld into Stone Nondetection Plant Growth
Protection from Energy Revivify
Speak with Plants Summon Fey Water Breathing WaterWalk
Wind Woll

LEVEL 4 RANGER SPELLS































School	Special Transmutation		R
Abjuration	M Transmutation Abjuration	 C
Necromancy		M Transmutation Conjuration	C,M
Transmutation	R
Transmutation	R
Evocation	C
LEVEL 5 RANGER SPELLS
Spell	School	Special Commune with Nature	 Divination		R Conjure Volley	 Conjuration
Greater Restoration	Abjuration	M
Steel Wind Strike	Conjuration	M
Swift Quiver	Transmutation	C,M
Tree Stride	Conjuration	C

RANGER SUBCLASSES
A Ranger subclass is a specialization that grants you features at certain Ranger levels, as specified in the subclass. Thissection presents the Beast Master, Fey Wanderer, Gloom Stalker, and Hunter subclasses.
BEAST MASTER		
Bond witha Primal Beast
A Beast Master forms a mystical bond with a special animal, drawing on primal magic and a deep con-nection to the natural world.
LEVEL 3: PRIMAL COMPANION
You magically summon a primal beast, which draws strength from your bond with nature. Choose its stat block: Beast of the Land, Beast of the Sea, or Beast oftbe Sky. You also determine the kind of animal it is, choosing a kind appropriate for the stat block. Whatever beast you choose, it bears primal markings indicating its supernatural origin.
The beast is Friendly to you and your allies and obeys your commands. It vanishes if you die.
The Beast in Combat. In combat, the beast acts
duringyour turn. It can move and use its Reaction on its own, but the only action it takes is the Dodge action unless you take a Bonus Action to command it to take an action in its stat block or some other action. You can also sacrifice one of your attacks
,_,hen you take the Attack action to command the beast to take the Beast's Strike action. If you have the Incapacitated condition. the beast acts on its ownand isn't limited to the Dodge action.
Restoring or Replacing the Beast. If the beast has
Spell		School	Special Conjure Woodland Beings	 Conjuration		 C Dominate Beast	 Enchantment		C Freedom of Movement	Abjuration
Grasping Vine	Conjuration	C
Locate Creature	Divination	C
Stoneskin	Transmutation	C,M
Summon Elemental	Conjuration	C,M


122	CHAPTER 3 I CHARACTER Cl.ASSES
died within the last hour, you can take a Magic action to touch it and expend a spell slot.The beast returns to life alter I minute with all its Hit Points restored.
Whenever you finish a Long Rest, you can sum-mon a different primal beast, which appears in an unoccupied space within 5 feet of you. You choose its stat block and appearance. If you already have a
beast from this feature, the old one vanishes when	 z the new one appears.	>




LEVEL 7: EXCEPTIONAL ThAININC
When you take a Bonus Action to command your Primal Companion beast to take an action, you can also command it to take the Dash, Disengage, Dodge, or Help action using its Bonus Action.
In addition, whenever it hits with an attack roll and deals damage, it can deal your choice of Force damage or its normal damage type.
LEVEL 11: BESTIAL fl.lRY
When you command your Primal Companion beast to take the Beast's Strike action, the beast can use it twice.
In addition, the first time each turn it hits a creature under the effect of your Hunter's Mark spell, the beast deals extra Force damage equal to the bonus damage of that spell.
LEVEL 15: SHARE SPELLS
When you cast a spell targeting yourself, you can also affect your Primal Companion beast with the spell if the beast is within 30 feet of you.

BEAST OF THE LAND
Medium Beast, Neutral
AC 13 plus your Wisdom modifier
HP 5 plus five times your Ranger level (the beast has a number of Hit Dice [d8s] equal to your Ranger level)
Speed 40 ft., Climb 40 ft.
MOO SAV(	MOO SA\>f	MOO SAVl
STR 14 +2 +2	DEX 14 +2 +2	CON 15 +2 +2
INT 8  -1	-1	WIS 14 +2  +2	CHA 11 +0 +0
Senses Darkvision 60 ft., Passive Perception 12 Languages Understands the languages you know CR None (XP 0; PB equals your Proficiency Bonus)
TRAITS	
Primal Bond. Add your Proficiency Bonus to any ability check or saving throw the beast makes.
ACTIONS	
Beast's Strike. Melee Attack Roll: Bonus equals your spell attack modifier, reach 5 ft. Hit: ld8 + 2 plus your Wisdom modifier Bludgeoning, Piercing, or Slashing damage (your choice when you summon the beast).
If the beast moved at least 20 feet straight toward the target before the hit, the target takes an extra ld6 damage of the same type, and the target has the Prone condition if it is a Large or smaller creature.
t	r23
FEY WANDERER	
W ieId Fey Mirth and Fury
A fey mystique surroun.ds you, thanks to the boon of an archfey or a location in the Feywild that transformed you. However you gained fey magic, you are now a Fey Wanderer. Your joyful laughter brightens the hearts of the downtrodden, and your martial prowess strikes terror in your foes, for great is the mirth of the feyand dreadful is their fury.
LEVEL 3: DREADFUL STRIKES
You can augment your weapon strikes with mind-scarring magic drawn from the murky hol-
lows of the Feywild. When you hit a creature with a weapon, you can deal an extra ld4 Psychic damage to the target, which can take this extra damage only once per turn.Theextra damage increases to td6 when you reach Ranger level 11.
LEV.EL 3: FEY WANDERER SPELLS
When you reach a Ranger levelspecified in the Fey Wanderer Spells table, you thereaA:er always have the listed spells prepared.

FEY WANDERER SPELLS
Ranger Level Spell
3	Charm Person
5	Misty Step
9	Summon Fey
13	Dimension Door
17	Mislead
You also possess a fey blessing. Choose it from the Feywild GiA:s table or determine it randomly.

FEYWILD GIFTS
ld6  Gift
    1 Illusory butterflies flutter around you while you take a Short or Long Rest.
    2 Flowers bloom from your hair each dawn.
    3 You faintly smell of cinnamon, lavender, nut-meg, or another comforting herb or spice.
    4 Your shadow dances while no one is looking directly at it.
S	Horns or antlers sprout from your head.
6	Your skin and hair change color each dawn.
LEVEL 3: OTHERWORLDLY GLAMOUR
Whenever you make a Charisma check, you gain a bonus to the check equal to your Wisdom modifier (minimum of +I).
You also gain proficiency in one of these skills of your choice: Deception, Performance, or Persuasion.


124	CHAPTER 3 I CHARACTER CLASSES
LEVEL 7: BEGUILING TWIST
The magic of the Feywild guards your mind. You have Advantage on saving throws to avoid or end the Charmed or Frightened condition.
In addition, whenever you or a creature you can see within 120 feet of you succeeds on a saving throw to avoid or end the Charmed or Frightened condition, you can take a Reaction to force a differ-ent creature you can see within 120 feet of yourself to make a Wisdom save against your spell save DC. On a failed save, the target is Charmed or Fright-
ened (your choice) for 1 minute. The target repeats the save at the end of each of its turns, ending the effect on itself on a success.
LEVEL 11: FEY REINFORCEMENTS
You can cast Summon Fey without a Material com-ponent. You can also cast it once without a spell slot, and you regain the ability to cast it in this way when you finish a Long Rest.
Whenever you start casting the spell, you can modify it so that it doesn't require Concentration. If you do so, the spell's duration becomes I minute for that casting.
LEVEL 15: MISTY WANDERER
You can cast Misty Step without expending a spell slot. You can do so a number of times equal to your Wisdom modifier (minjmum of once). and you re-gain all expended uses when you finish a Long Rest.
In addition, whenever you cast Misty Step, you can bringalong one willing creature you can see within 5 feet of yourself. That creature teleports to an un-occupied space of your choice within 5 feet of your destination space.
GLOOM STALKER
Draw on Shadow Magic to Fight Your Foes
Gloom Stalkers are at home in the darkest places. wielding magic drawn from the Shadowfell to com-bat enemies that lurk in darkness.
LEVEL 3: DREAD AMBUSHER
You have mastered the art of creating fearsome am-bushes. granting you the following benefits.
Ambusher's Leap. At the start of your first turn of each combat. your Speed increases by 10 feet until the end of that turn.
Dreadful Strike. When you attack a creature and hit it with a weapon, you can deal an extra 2d6 Psy-chic damage. You can use this benefit only once per turn, you can use it a number of times equal to your Wisdom modifier (minimum of once), and you re-gain all expended uses when you finish a Long Rest.
Initiative Bonus. When you roll Initiative, you can add your Wisdom modifier to the roll.
LEVEL 3: GLOOM STALKER SPELLS
When you reach a Ranger level specified in the Gloom Stalker Spells table, you thereafter always have the listed spells prepared.

GLOOM STALKER SPELLS
Ranger Level Spells
3	Disguise Self
5	Rope Trick
9	Feor
13	Greoter Invisibility
17	Seeming
LEVEL 3: UMBRAL STGHT
You gain Darkvision with a range of 60 feet. If you already have Darkvision ,vhen you gain this fe.ature, its range increases by 60 feet.
You are also adept at evading creatures that rely on Darkvision. While entirely in Darkness, you have the Invisible cond.ition to any creature that relies on Darkvision to see you in that Darkness.
LEVEL 7: !RON MIND
You have honed you.r ability to resist m.ind•altering powers. You gain proficiency in Wisdom saving throws. If you already have this proficiency, you instead gain proficiency in Intelligence or Charisma saving throws (your choice).
LEVEL II: STALKER'S FLURRY
The Psychic damage of your Dreadful Strike be• comes 2d8. In addition, when you use the Dreadful Strike effect of your Dread Ambusher feature, you can cause one of the following additional effects.
Sudden Strike. You can make anothe,·attack with the same weapon against a different creature that is within 5 Feet of the original target and that is within the weapon's range.
Mass Fear.The target and each creature within 10
feet of it must make a Wisdom saving throw against your spell save DC. On a failed save, a creature has the Frightened condition until the start of your next turn.
LEVEL 15: SHADOWY DODGE
When a creature makes an attack roll against you, you can take a Reaction to impose Disadvantage on that roll. Whether the attack hits or misses, you can then teleport up to 30 feet to an unoccupied space you can see.



i


..

HUNTER
Protect Nature and People from Destruction
You stalk prey in the wilds and elsewhere, using your abilities as a Hunter to protect nature and people everywhere from forces that would de· stroy them.
LEVEL 3: HUNTER'S LORE
You can call on the forces of nature to re· veal certain strengths and weaknesses of your prey. While a creature is marked by your Hunter's Mark, you know whether that creature has any Immunities, Resis· tances, or Vulnerabilities,and if the crea· ture hasany, you know what theyare.
LEVEL 3: HUNTER'S PREY
You gain one of the following feature op· tions of your choice. Whenever you finish a Short or Long Rest, you can replace the chosen option with the other one.
Colossus Slayer. Your tenacity can wear down even the most resilient foes. When
you hit a creature with a weapon, the weapon deals an extra ld8 damage to the target if it's missing any of its Hit Points. You can deal this extra damage onJy once per turn.
Horde Breaker. Once on each of your turns when
you make an attack with a weapon, you can make another attack with the same weapon against a dif-ferent creature that is within 5 feet of the original target, that is within the weapon's range, and that you haven't attacked this turn.
LEVEL 7: DEFENSIVE TACTICS
You gain one of the following feature options of your choice. Whenever you finish a Short or Long Rest, you can replace the chosen option vrith
the other one.
Escape the Horde. Opportunity Attacks have Disadvantage against you.
Multiattack Defense. When a creature
hits you with an attack roll, that creature has Disadvantage on all other attack rolls against you tbis turn.
LEVEL 11: SUPERfOR HUNTER'S PREY
Once per turn when you deal damage to a creature marked by your Hunter's Mark,you can also deal that spell's extra damage to a different creature that you can see within 30 feet of the first creature.
LEVEL 15: SUPERIOR HUNTER'S DEFENSE
When you take damage, you can take a Reaction to give yourself Resistance to that damage and any other damage of the same type until the end of the current turn.


127

 
CORE RocuE TRAITS
Primary Ability Hit Point Die
Saving Throw Proficiencies

Dexterity
D8 per Rogue level Dexterity and Intelligence
As A MuLTICLASS CHARACTER
    • Gain the following traits from the Core Rogue Traits table: Hit Point Die, pro6ciency in one skill of your choice from the Rogue's skill list, pro-ficiency with Thieves' Tools, and training with Light armor.
Skill Proficiencies




Weapon Proficiencies


Tool Proficiencies Armor Training Starting Equipment
Choose 4: Acrobatics, Ath-
letics, Deception, Insight, Intimidation, Investigation, Perception, Persuasion, Sleight of Hand, or Stealth
Simple weapons and Mar-tial weapons that have the Finesse or Light property
Thieves' Tools Light armor
Choose A or B: (A) Leather
Armor, 2 Daggers, Short-sword, Shortbow, 20 Arrows, Quiver. Thieves' Tools. Bur-glar's Pack, and 8 GP; or (B) 100 GP
    • Gain the Rogue's level I features, which are listed in the Rogue Features table.
ROGUE GLASS FEATURES
As a Rogue, you gain the following class features when you reach the specified Rogue levels. These features are listed in the Rogue Features table.
LEVEL I: EXPERTISE
You gain Expertise in two of your skill proficiencies of you.r choice. Sleight of Hand and Stealth are rec· ommended if you have proficiency in them.
At Rogue level 6, you gain Expertise in two more
of your skill proficiencies of your choice.
LEVEL I: SNEAK ATTACK
You know how to strike subtlyand exploit a foe's distraction. Once per turn, you can deal an extra ld6 damage to one creature you hit with an attack roll if you have Advantage on the roll and the attack
OCUES RELY ON CUNNING, STEALTH, AND
their foes' vulnerabilities to get the upper hand in anysituation. They have a knack for
finding the solution to just about any problem. A few even learn magical tricks to supplement their other abilities. Many Rogues focus on stealth and deception. while others refine skills that help them in a dungeon environment. such as climbing, finding and disarming traps, and opening locks.
In combat, Rogues prioritize subtle strikes over brute strength. They would rather make one precise strike than wear an opponent down with a barrage of blows.
Some Rogues began their careers as criminals, while others used their cunning to fight crime. Whatever a Rogue's relation to the law, no common criminal or officer of the law can match the subtle brilliance of the greatest Rogues.
BECOMING A ROGUE ...		
As A LEVEL 1 CHARACTER
        ? Gain all the traits in the Core Rogue Traits table.
        ? Gain the Rogue's level I features. which are listed in the Rogue Features table.


uses a Finesse or a Ranged weapon. The extra dam-age's type is the same as the weapon's type.
You don't need Advantage on the attack roll if at least one of your allies is within S foet of the target, the ally doesn't have the Incapacitated condition, and you don't have Disadvantage on the attack roll.
The extra damage increases as you gain Rogue levels, as shown in the Sneak Attack column of the Rogue Features table.
LEVEL I: Tu!EVES' CANT
You picked up various languages in the commu• nities where you plied your roguish talents. You know Thieves' Cant and one other language of your choice, which you choose from the language tables in chapter 2.
LEVEL I: WEAPON MASTERY
Your training with weapons allows you to use the mastery properties of two kinds of weapons of your choice with which you have proficiency, such as Daggers and Shortbows.
Whenever you finish a Long Rest, you can change the kindsof weapons you chose, For example, you could switch to using the mastery properties of Scimitars and Shortswords.






CHAPTER 3 I Cl1ARACTER CLASSES	129
ROGUE FEATURES
Proficiency






























LEVEL 2: CUNNING ACTION
Your quick thinking and agility allow you to move and act quickly. On your turn, you can take one of the following actions as a Bonus Action: Dash, Dis· engage, or Hide.
LEVEL 3: ROGUE SUBCLASS
You gain a Rogue subclass of your choice. The Ar· cane Trickster, Assassin, Soulknife, and Thief sub· classes are detailed after this class's description. A subclass is a specialization that grants you features at certain Rogue levels. For the rest of your career, you gain each of your subclass's features that are of your Rogue level or lower.
LEVEL 3: STEADY AIM
As a Bonus Action, you give yourself Advantage on your next attack roll on the current turn. You can use this feature only if you haven't moved during this turn, and after you use it, your Speed is O until the end of the current turn.
LEVEL 4: ABILITY SCORE lMPROVEMENT
You gain the Ability Score Improvement feat (see chapter 5) or another feat of your choice for which you qualify. You gain this feature again at Rogue levels 8, 10, 12, and 16.






























LEVEL 5: CUNNING STRIKE
You've developed cunning ways to use your Sneak Attack. When you deal Sneak Attack damage, you can add one of the following Cunning Str.ike effects. Each effect has a die cost, which is the number of Sneak Attack damage dice you must forgo to add the effect. You remove the die before rolling, and
the effect occurs immediately after the attack's damage is dealt. For example, if you add the Poison effect, remove ld6 from the Sneak Attack's damage before rolling.
If a Cunning Strike effect requires a saving throw, the DC equals 8 plus your Dexterity modifier and Proficiency Bonus.
Poison (Cos? ld6). You add a toxin to your strike, forcing the target to make a Constitution saving throw. On a failed save, the target has the Poisoned condition for I minute. At the end of each of its turns, the Poisoned target repeats the save, ending the effect on itself on a success.
To use this effect, you must have a Poisoner's Kit on your person.
'lrip (Cost: Jd6). If the target is Large or smaUer, it
must succeed on a Dexterity saving throw or have the Prone condition.



130	CHAPTER 3 I CHARACTER CLASSES
Withdraw (Cost ld6). Immediately aR:er the at-tack, you move up to half your Speed without pro-voking Opportunity Attacks.
LEVEL 5: UNCANNY DODGE
When an attacker that you can see hits you with an attack roll, you can take a Reaction to halve the at-tack's damage against you (round down).
LEVEL 7: EVASION
You can nimbly dodge out of the way of certain dangers. When you're subjected to an effect that allows you to make a Dexterity saving throw to take only half damage, you instead take nodamage if you succeed on the saving throw and only half dam-age if you fail. You can't use this feature if you have the Incapacitated condition.
LEVEL 7: RELIABLE TALENT
Whenever you make an ability check that uses one of your skill or tool proficiencies, you can treat a d20 roll of 9 or lower as a 10.
LEVEL .II: IMPROVED CUNNING STRIKE
You can use up to two Cunning Strike effects when you dea.l Sneak Attack damage, paying the die cost for each effect.
LEVEL 14: DEVIOUS STRJKES
You've practiced new ways to use your Sneak At-tack deviously. The following effects are now among your Cunning Strike options.

Da.ze (Cost: 2d6). The target must succeed on a Constitution saving throw, or on its next turn, it
Knock Out (Cost: 6d6).The target must succeed on a Constitution saving throw, or it has the Uncon-scious condition for I minute or until it takes any damage. The Unconscious target repeats the save
at the end of each of its turns, ending the effect on itself on a success.
Obscure (Cost: 3d6).The target must succeed on a Dexterity saving throw, or it has the Blinded condi-tion until the end of its next turn.
LEVEL 15: SLIPPERY MIND
Your cunning mind is exceptionally difficult to con-trol. You gain proficiency in Wisdom and Charisma saving throws.
LEVEL 18: ELUSIVE
You're so evasive that attackers rarely gain the upper hand against you. No attack roll can have Advantage against you un.less you have the Incapac-itated condition.
LEVEL 19: EPIC BOON
You gain an Epic Boon feat (see chapter 5) or an· other feat of your choice for which you qualify. Boon of the Night Spirit is recommended.
LEVEL 20: STROKE OF LUCK
You have a marvelous knack for succeeding when you need to. If you fail a D20 Test, you can turn the roll into a 20.
Once you use this feature, you can't use it again until you finish a Short or Long Rest.



ROGUE SUBCLASSES
A Rogue subclass is a specialization that grants you features at certain Rogue levels, as specified in the subclass. This section presents the Arcane Trickster, Assassin, Soulknife, and Thief subclasses.
ARCANE TRICKSTER
Iinhance Stealth with Arcane Spells
Some Rogues enhance their fine-honed skills of stealth and agility with spells, learning magical tricks to aid them in their trade. Some Arcane Tricksters use their talents as pickpockets and bur-glars, while others are pranksters.
LEVEL 3: 8PELLCASTmC
You have learned to cast spells. See chapter 7 for the rules on spellcasting. The information below details how you use those rules as an Arcane Trickster.
Cantrips. You know three cantrips: Mage Hand and two other cantrips of your choice from the Wizard spell list (see that class's sec-tion for its list). Mind Sliver and Minor ///usion are recommended.
Whenever you gain a Rogue level, you can replace one of your cantrips, except Mage Hand, with an-other Wizard cantrip of your choice.
When you reach Rogue level JO, you learn another Wizard cantrip of your choice.
Spell Slots. The Arcane Trickster Spellcastiog table shows how many spell slots you have to cast your level I+spells. You regain all expended spell slots when you finish a Long Rest
Prepared Spells of Level1+. You prepare the list of level I+spells that are available for you to cast with this feature.Tostart, choose three level I Wizard spells. Charm Person, Disguise Self, and Fog Cloud are recommended.
The number of spells on your list increases as you gain Rogue levels, as shown in the Prepared Spells column of the Arcane Trickster Spellcasting table. Whenever that number increases, choose additional Wizard spells until the number of spells on your
list matches the number in the Arcane Trickster Spellcasting table.The chosen spells must be of a level for which you havespell slots. For example, if you're a level 7 Rogue, your list of prepared spells can include five Wizard spells of level I or 2 in any
combination.	5

ARCANE TRICKSTER SPELLCASTING
Rogue	Prepared	-Spell Slots per Spell Level-
Level	Spells	1	2	3	4
3	3	2			
4	4	3			
5	4	3			
6	4	3			
7	5	4	2		
8	6	4	2		
9	6	4	2		
10	7	4	3		
11	8	4	3		
12	8	4	3		
13	9	4	3	2	
14	10	4	3	2	
15	10	4	3	2	
16	11	4	3	3	
17	11	4	3	3	
18	11	4	3	3	
19	12	4	3	3	
20	13	4	3	3	

Changing Your Prepared Spells. Whenever you gain a Rogue level, you can replace one spell on your list with another Wizard spell for which you have spell slots.
Spellcasting Ability. Intelligence is your speJlcast· ing ability for your Wizard spells.
LEVEL 3: MAGE HAND LEGERDEMAIN
When you cast Mage Hand, you can cast it as a Bonus Action, and you can make the spectral hand Invisible. You can control the hand as a Bonus Action, and through it, you can make Dexterity (Sleight of Hand) checks.
LEVEL 9: MAGICAL AMBUSH
If you have the Invisible condition when you cast a spell on a creature, it has Disadvantage on any
saving throw it makes against the spell on the same turn.
LEVEL 13: VERSATILE TRICKSTER
You gain the ability to distract targets with your Mage Hand. When you use the Tripoption of your Cunning Strike on a creature, you can also use that option on another creature within 5 feet of the spectral hand.
LEVEL 17: SPELL THIEF
Yougain the ability to magically steal the knowl-edge of how to cast a spell from another spellcaster.
Immediately alter a creature casts a spell that targets you or includes you in its area of effect, you can take a Reaction to force the creature to make an Intelligence saving throw. The DC equals your spell save DC. On a failed save, you negate the spell's ef-fect against you, and you steal the knowledge of the spell if it is at least level I and of a level you can cast (it doesn't need to be a Wizard spell). For the next
8 hours, you have the spell prepared. The creature can't cast it until the 8 hours have passed.
Once you steal a spell with this feature, you can't
ASSASSIN		
Practice the Grim Art of Deatli
An Assassin's training focuses on usingstealth, poison, and disguise to eliminate foes with deadly efficiency. While some Rogues who follow this path are hired killers, spies, or bounty hunters, the capa· bilities of this subclass are equally useful for adven-turers facinga variety of monstrous enemies.
LEVEL 3: ASSASSINATE
You're adept at ambushing a target, granting you the following benefits.
Initiative. You have Advantage on Initiative rolls. Surprising Strikes. During the first round of each combat, you have Advantage on attack rolls against any creature that hasn't taken a turn. If your Sneak Attack hits any target during that round, the target
takes extra damage of the weapon's type equal to your Rogue level.
LEVEL 3: ASSASSIN'S TOOLS
You gain a Disguise Kit and a Poisoner's Kit, and you have proficiency with them.
LEVEL 9: INFILTRATION EXPERTISE
You are expert at the following techniques that aid your infiltrations.
Masterful Mimicry, You can unerringly mimic an-other person's speech, handwriting, or both if you have spent at least I hour studying them.
Roving Aim. Your Speed isn't reduced to O by using Steady Aim.
LEVEL 13: ENVENOM WEAPONS
When you use the Poison option of your Cunning Strike, the target also takes 2d6 Poison damage whenever it fails the saving throw. This damage ignores Resistance to Poison damage.
LEVEL 17: DEATH STRIKE
When you hit with your Sneak Attack on the first round of a combat, the target must succeed on a Constitution saving throw (DC 8 plus your Dexter-ity modifier and Proficiency Bonus), or the attack's damage is doubled against the target.














134

SOULKNIFE		
Strike Foes wit/1 Psionic Blades
A Soulknife strikes with the mjnd, cutting through barriers both physical and psychic. These Rogues discover psionic power within themselves and channel it to do their roguish work. As a Soulknife, your psionic abilities might have haunted you since childhood, revealing their full potential only as you experienced the stress of adventure. Or you might have sought out an order of psychic adepts and spent years learning how to manifest your power.
LEVEL 3: PS!ONIC POWER
You harbor a wellspring of psionic energy within yourself. It is represented by your Psionic Energy Dice, which fuel certain powers you have from this subclass. The Soulknife Energy Dice table shows the number of these dice you have when you reach cer-tain Rogue levels. and the table shows the diesize.

SOULKNIFE ENERGY DICE

Rogue Level	Die Size	Number
3	06	4
5	08	6
9	08	8
11	DlO	8
13	DlO	10
17	D12	12
Any features in thissubclass that use a Psionic En-ergy Die use only the dice from this subclass. Some of your powers expend a Psionic Energy Die, as specified in a power's description, and you can't use a power if it requires you to use a die when your Psionic Energy Dice are all expended.
You regain one of your expended Psionic Energy Dice when you finish a Short Rest, and you regain all of them when you finish a Long Rest.
Psi-Bolstered Knack. If you fail an ability check us-
inga skill or tool with which you have proficiency, you can roll one Psionic Energy Die and add the number rolled to the check, potentially turning fail-ure into success. The die is expended only if the roll then succeeds.
Psychic Whispers. You can establish telepathic communication between yourself and others. As a Magic action, choose one or more creatures you can see, up to a number of creatures equal to your
Proficiency Bonus, and then roll one Psionic Energy Die. For a number of hours equal to the number rolled, the chosen creatures can speak telepathically with you, and you can speak telepathically with them. To send or receive a message (no action re-quired), you and the other creature must be within 1

r35

mileof each other. A creature can end the telepathic connection at any time (noaction required).
The first time you use this power after each Long Rest, you don't expend the Psionic Energy Die. All other times you use the power, you expend the die.
LEVEL 3: PSYCHIC BLADES
You can manifest shimmering blades of psychic en· ergy. Whenever you take the Attack action or make an Opportunity Attack, you can manifest a Psychic Blade in your free hand and make the attack with that blade.The magic blade has the following traits:
Weapon Category: Simple Melee
Damage on a Hit: ld6 Psychic plus the ability modifier used for the attack roll
Properties: Finesse, Thrown (range 60/120 feet)
Mastery: Vex (you can use this property, and it doesn't count against the number of properties you can use with Weapon Mastery)
The blade vanishes immediately after it hits or misses its target, and it leaves no mark if it deals damage.
AA:er you attack with the blade on your turn, you can make a melee or ranged attack with a second psychic blade as a Bonus Action on the same turn if your other hand is free to create it. The damage die of this bonus attack is ld4 instead of ld6.
LEVEL 9: SOUL BLADES
You can now use the following powers with your Psychk Blades.
Homing Strikes. If you make an attack roll with your Psychic Blade and miss the target, you can roll one Psionic Energy Die and add the number rolled to the attack roll. If this causes the attack to hit, the die is expended.
Psychic Teleportation. As a Bonus Action, you manifest a Psychic Blade, expend one Psionic En· ergy Die and roll it, and throw the blade at an un• occupied space you can see up to a number of feet awayequal to 10 times the number rolled. You then teleport to that space, and the blade vanishes.
LŁVEL 13: PSYCHJC VEIL
You can weave a veil of psychic static to mask your-self. As a Magic action, you gain the Invisible con· dition for I hour or until you dismiss this effect (no action required).This invisibility ends early imme· diately after you deal damage to a creature or you force a creature to make a saving throw.
Once you use this feature, you can't doso again until you finish a Long Rest unless you expend a Psionic Energy Die (no action required) to restore your use of it.
LEVEL 17: REND MIND
You can sweep your Psychic Blades through a crea-ture's mind. When you use your Psychic Blades to deal Sneak Attack damage to a creature, you can force that target to make a Wisdom saving throw (DC 8 plus your Dexterity modifier and Pro6ciency Bonus}. If the save fails, the target has the Stunned condition for I minute. The Stunned target repeats the save at the end of each of its turns, ending the effect on itself on a success.
Once you use this feature, you can't doso again until you finish a Long Rest unless you expend three Psionic Energy Dice (no action required} to restore your use of it.



THIEF
Hunt for'Treasure as a Classic Adventurer
A mix of burglar, treasure hunter, and explorer, you are the epitome of an adventurer. ln addition to im-proving your agility and stealth, you gain abilities useful for delving into ruins and getting maximum benefit from the magic items you find there.
LEVEL 3: FAST HANDS
As a Bonus Action, you can do one of the following.
Sleight of Hand. Make a Dexterity (Sleight of Hand) check to pick a lock or disarm a trapwith Thieves' Tools or to pick a pocket.
Use an Object.Take the Utili.ze action, or take the Magic action to use a magic item that requires that action,
LEVEL 3: SECOND-STORY WORK
You've trained to get into especially hard-to-reach places, granting you these benefits,
Climber. You gain a ClimbSpeed equal to your Speed.
Jumper. You can determine your jump distance using your Dexterity rather than your Strength.
LEVEL 9: SUPREME SNEAK
You gain the following Cunning Strike option.
Stealth Attack (Cost: ld6). If you have the Hide action's Invisible condition, this attack doesn't end that condition on you if you end the turn behind Three-Quarters Cover or Total Cover.
LEVŁL 13: USE MAGIC DEVICE
You've learned how to maximize use of magic items, granting you the following benefits.
Attunement. You can attune to up to four magic items at once.
Charges. Whenever you use a magic item property that expends charges, roll ld6. On a roll of 6, you use the property without expending the charges.
Scrolls. You can use any Spell Scroll, using Intelli-gence as your spellcasting ability for the spell. If the spell is a cantrip or a level I spell, you can cast it re-liably. If the scroll contains a higher-levelspell, you must first succeed on an Intelligence (Arcana) check (DC 10 plus the speU's level). On a successful check, you cast the spell from the scroll. On a failed check, the scroll disintegrates.
LEVEL 17: Tu.raF'S REFLEXES
You are adept at laying ambushes and quickly es-capingdanger. You can take two turns during the first round of any combat. You take your first turn at your normal Initiative and your second turn at your Initiative minus 10.


•	•	•





CORE SORCERER TRAITS
BECOMING A SORCERE-R -...------
Primary Ability Hit Point Die
Saving Throw Proficiencies
Skill Proficiencies


Weapon Proficiencies Armor Training Starting Equipment


Charisma
06 per Sorcerer level Constitution and Charisma
Choose 2: Arcana, Deception, Insight, Intimidation, Persua-sion, or Religion
Simple weapons None
Choose A or 8: (A) Spear, 2 Daggers, Arcane Focus
(crystal), Dungeoneer's Pack,
and 28 GP; or (B) 50 GP
As ALEVC:L 1 CHARACTER
    • Gain all the traits in the Core Sorcerer Traits table.
    • Gain the Sorcerer's level1 features, which are
listed in the Sorcerer Features table.
AS A MULTICLASS CHARACTER
    • Gain the Hit Point Die from the Core Sorcerer Traits table.
    • Gain the Sorcerer's level 1 features, which are listed in the Sorcerer Features table. See the mul-ticlassing rules in chapter 2 to determine your available spell slots.
SORCERER CLASS FEATURES
As a Sorcerer, you gain the following class features when you reach the specified Sorcerer levels. These
ORCERERS WIELD INNATE MAGIC THAT IS
stamped into their being. Some Sorcerers can't name the origin of their power, while others
trace it to strange events in their personal or family history. The blessing of a dragon or a dryad at a baby's birth or the strike of lightning from a clear sky might spark a Sorcerer's giA:. So too might the gift of a deity, exposure to the strange magic of another plane of existence, or a glimpse into the inner workings of reality. Whatever the origin,
the result is an indelible mark on the Sorcerer, a churning magic that can be passed down through generations.
Sorcerers don't learn magic; the raw, roiling
power of magic is part of them.The essential art of a Sorcerer is learning to harness and channel that innate magic, allowing the Sorcerer to discover new and staggering ways to unleash their power. As Sor-cerers master their innate magic, they grow more attuned to its origin, developing distinct powers that reAect its source.
Sorcerers are rare.Some family lines produce
exactly one Sorcerer in every generation. but most of the time, the talents of sorcery appear as a Auke. People who have this magical power soon discover that it doesn't like to stay quiet. ASorcerer's magic wants to be wielded.
features are listed in the Sorcerer Features table.
LEVELi: SPELLCASTING
Drawing from your innate magic, you can cast spells. See chapter 7 for the rules on spellcasting. The information below details how you use those rules with Sorcerer spells, which appear in the Sor-cerer spell list later in the class's description.
Cantrips. You know four Sorcerer cantrips of your choice. Light, Prestidigitation,Shocking Grasp, and Sorcerous Burst are recommended. Whenever you gain a Sorcerer leve.l, you can replace one of your cantrips from this feature with another Sor-cerer cantrip of your choice.
When you reach Sorcerer levels 4 and 10, you learn another Sorcerer cantrip of your choice, as shown in the Cantrips column of the Sorcerer Fea-tures table.
Spell Slots. The Sorcerer Features tableshows how many spell slots you have to cast your level I+ spells. You regain all expended slots,vhen you finish a Long Rest.
Prepared Spells of Level1+. You prepare the list of level1+spells that are available for you to cast with this feature. Tostart, choose two level I Sor-cerer spells. Burning Hands and Detect Magic are recommended.
The number of spells on your list increases as you gain Sorcerer levels, as shown in the Prepared Spells column of the Sorcerer Features table.
Whenever that number increases, choose additional








OfJAPTER 3 I CHARACTER CLASSES	c39
SORCERER FEATURES
Proficiency		Sorcery		Prepared	 --Spell Slots per Spell Level--Level	Bonus	Class Features		Points	Cantrips		Spells	l	2	3	4	5	6	7 8	9
+2	Spellcasting,	4	2	2
Innate Sorcery
2	+2	Font of Magic,	2	4	4	3	-	- - - -	-	-
Metamagic
3	+2	Sorcerer Subclass	3	4	6	4	2
4	+2	Ability Score	4	s	7	4	3
Improvement
s	+3	Sorcerous	s	s	9	4	3 2 -	-	- -	-	-
Restoration
6	+3	Subclass feature	6	5	10	4	3 3
7	+3	Sorcery Incarnate	7	s	11	4	3 3
8	+3	Ability Score	8	s	12	4	3 3 2
Improvement
9	+4	9	5	14	4	3	3 3	l
10	+4	Metamagic	10	6	15	4 3	3	3	2
11	+4	11	6	16	4 3 3 3 2 1
12	+4	Ability Score	12	6	16	4 3	3 3	2 1
Improvement
13	+5	13	6	17	4 3	3	3	2 1 1
14	+5	Subclass feature	14	6	17	4 3	3 3	2	1 1
1S	+S	15	6	18	4	3 3	3	2	1
16	+5	Ability Score	16	6	18	4	3	3 3	2	1
Improvement
17	+6	Metamagic	17	6	19	4	3 3 3	2 1 1
18	+6	Subclass feature	18	6	20	4	3 3	3	3	1
19	+6	Epic Boon	19	6	21	4	3	3	3	3	2 1
20	+6	Arcane Apotheosis	20	6	22	4 3	3	3	3	2 2
Sorcerer spells until the number of spells on your	LEVEL!: INNATE SORCERY
list matches the number in the Sorcerer Features	Ari event in your past leA: an indelible mark on you,
table.The chosen spells must be of a level for which you have spell slots. For example, if you're a level 3
infusing you with simmering magic. As a Bonus Action, you can unleash that magic for I minute,
Sorcerer, your list of prepared spells can include six	during which you gain the following benefits:
Sorcerer spells of level1 or 2 in any combination.	• The spell save DC of your Sorcerer spells
If another Sorcerer feature gives you spells that youalways have prepared, those spells don't count against the number of spells you can prepare with this feature, but those spells otherwise count as Sorcerer spells for you.
Changing Your Prepared Spells. Whenever you gain a Sorcerer level, you can replace one spell on your list with another Sorcerer spell for which you
increases by 1.
        ? You have Advantage on the attack rolls of Sorcerer spells you cast.
You can use this feature twice, and you regain all expended uses of it when you finish a Long Rest.
LEVEL 2: FONT OF MAGIC
have spell slots.	You can tap into the wellspring of magic within
Spellcasting Al>ility. Charisma is your spellcasting	yourself. This wellspring is represented by Sorcery ability for your Sorcerer spells.	 Points, which allow you to create a variety of magi-
Spellcasting Focus. You can use an Arcane Focus	cal effects. as a Spellcasting Focus for your Sorcerer spells.


14-0	CHAPTER 3 I CHAltACTER CLASSES
You have 2 Sorcery Points, and you gain more as you reach higher levels, as shown in the Sorcery Points column of the Sorcerer Features table. You can't have more Sorcery Points than the number shown in the table for your level. You regain all ex-pended Sorcery Points when you finish a Long Rest.
You can use your Sorcery Points to fuel the options below, along with other features, such as Metamagic, that use those points.
Converting Spell Slots to Sorcery Points. You can expend a spell slot to gain a number of Sorcery Points equal to the slot's level (no action required).
Creating Spell Slots. As a Bonus Action, you can transform unexpended Sorcery Points into one spell slot.The Creating Spell Slots table shows the cost of creating a spell slot of a given level, and it lists the minimum Sorcerer level you must be to create
a slot. You can create a spell slot no higher than level 5.
Any spell slot you create with this feature van-ishes when you finish a Long Rest.

CREATING SPELL SLOTS

Spell Slot Level	Sorcery Point Cost	Min. Sorcerer Level
l	2	2
2	3	3
3	5	5
4	6	7
5	7	9

LEVEL 2: METAMAGIC
Because your magic Aows from within, you can alter your spells to suit your needs: you gain two Metamagic options of your choice from "Meta-magic Options" later in this class's description. You use the chosen options to temporarily modify spells you cast. To use an option. you must spend the num-ber of Sorcery Points that it costs.
You can use only one Meta magic option on a spell when you cast it unless otherwise noted in one of those options.
Whenever you gain a Sorcerer level, you can re-place one of your Metamagic options with one you don't know. You gain two more options at Sorcerer level 10 and two more at Sorcerer level 17.
LEVEL 3: SORCERER SUBCLASS
You gain a Sorcerer subclass of your choice.The Aberrant Sorcery, Clockwork Sorcery, Draconic Sorcery, and Wild Magic Sorcery subclasses are detailed after this class's description. A subclass is a specialization that grants you foatures at certain
Sorcerer levels. For the rest of your career, you gain each of your subclass's features that are of your Sorcerer level or lower.
LEVEL 4: ABlLITY SCORE IMPROVEMENT
You gain the Ability Score Improvement feat (see chapter S) or another feat of your choice for which you qualify. You gain this feature again at Sorcerer levels 8, 12, and 16.
LEVEL 5: SORCEROUS RESTORATION
When you finish a Short Rest, you can regain ex-pended Sorcery Points, but no more than a number equal to half your Sorcerer level (round do,-,n).
Once you use this feature, you can't do so again un-til you finish a Long Rest.
LEVEL7:SORCERY1NCARNATE
If you have no uses of Innate Sorcery left, you can use it if you spend 2 Sorcery Points when you take the Bonus Action to activate it.
In addition, while your Innate Sorcery feature is active, you can use up to t\\10 of your Metamagic options on each spell you cast.
LEVEL 19: EPIC BOON
You gain an Epic Boon feat (see chapter 5) or an-other feat of your choice for which you qualify. Boon of Dimensional Travel is recommended.
LEVEL 20: ARCANE APOTHEOSIS
While your Innate Sorcery feature is active, you can use one Meta magic option on each of your turns without spending Sorcery Points on it.
METAMAGIC OPTIONS
Thefollowing options are available to your Meta-magic feature. The options are presented in alpha-beticaI order.
CAREFUL SPELL
Cost: I Sorcery Point
When you cast a spell that forces other creatures to make a saving throw. you can protect some of those creatures from the spell's fuII force. To doso.
spend I Sorcery Point and choose a number of those creatures up to your Charisma modifier (minimum of one creature). A chosen creature automatically succeeds on its saving throw against the spell, and it takes no damage if it would normally take half dam-age on a successful save.
DISTANT SPELL
Cost: I Sorcery Point
When you cast a spell that has a range of at least 5 feet. you can spend 1 Sorcery Point to double the spell's range. Or when you cast a spell that has a range of Touch, you can spend 1 Sorcery Point to make the spell's range 30 feet.




CHAPTER 3 I CHARACTER CLASSES	r41



HEIGHTENED SPELL
Cost:2 Sorcery Points
When you cast a spell that forces a creature to make a saving throw, you can spend 2 Sorcery Points to give one target of the spell Disadvantage on saves against the spell.
QUICKENED SPELL
Cost:2 Sorcery Points
When you cast a spell that has a casting time of an action, you can spend 2 Sorcery Points to change the casting time to a Bonus Action for this casting. You can't modify a spell in this way if you've already cast a level l+spell on the current turn, nor can you cast a level I+spell on this turn after modifying a spell in this way.
SEEKING SPELL
Cost:1 Sorcery Point
If you make an attack roll for a spell a.nd miss, you can spend ISorcery Point to reroll the d20, and you must use the new roll.
You can use Seeking Spell even if you've already used a different Metamagic option during the cast-ing of the spell.
SUBTLE SPELL
Cost: I Sorcery Point
When you cast a spell, you can spend l Sorcery Point to cast it without any Verbal,Somatic, or Ma-terial components, except Material components that are consumed by the spell or that have a cost speci-fied in the spell.





EMPOWERED SPELL
Cost: ISorcery Point
When you rolJ damage for a spell, you can spend 1 Sorcery Point to reroll a number of the damage dice up to your Charisma modifier (minimum of one), and you must use the new rolls.
You can use Empowered Spell even if you've al-ready used a different Metamagic option during the casting of the spell.
EXTENDED SPELL
Cost:I Sorcery Point
When you cast a spell that hasa duration of I min-ute or longer, you can spend I Sorcery Point to dou-ble its duration to a maximum duration of 24 hours.
If the affected spell requires Concentration, you have Advantage on anysaving throw you make to maintain that Concentration.
TRANSMUTED SPELL
Cost:I Sorcery Point
When you cast a spell that deals a type of damage from the following lfat, you can spend I Sorcery Point to change that damage type to one of the other listed types: Acid, Cold, Fire. Lightning, Poi-son,Thunder.
'I'wtNNED SPELL
Cost: I Sorcery Point
When you cast a spell,such as Charm Person, that can be cast with a higher-level spell slot to target an additional creature, you can spend l Sorcery Point to increase the spell's effective level by I.
SORCERER SPELL LIST
Thissection presents the Sorcerer spell list. The spells are organized by spell level and then alpha-betized, and each spell's school of magic is listed. In the Special column, C means the spell requires
Concentration, R means it's a Ritual, and M means it
requires a specific Material component.


142	CHABTER 3 I CHARACTER CLASSES
CANTRIPS (LEVEL O SORCERER SPELLS)
Spell
Acid Splash
School	Special Evocation
Blade Ward	Abjuration	C	
Chill Touch	Necromancy		LEVEL 2 SORCERER SPELLS

Dancing Lights	Illusion	C	Spell	School	Special
Elementalism	Transmutation		Alter Self	Transmutation	C
Fire Bolt	Evocation		Arcane Vigor	Abjuration	
Friends	Enchantment	C	Blindness/Deafness	Transmutation	
light	Evocation		Blur	Illusion	C
Mage Hand	Conjuration		Cloud of Daggers	Conjuration	C
Mending	Transmutation		Crown of Madness	Enchantment	C
Message Mind Sliver
Minor Illusion	Transmutation Enchantment
Illusion		Darkness Darkvision
Detect Thoughts	Evocation Transmutation
Divination	C


C
Poison Spray	Necromancy		Dragon's Breath	Transmutation	C
Prestidigitation	Transmutation		Enhance Ability	Transmutation	C
Ray of Frost	Evocation		Enlarge/Reduce	Transmutation	C
Shocking Grasp	Evocation		Flame Blade	Evocation	C
Sorcerous Burst	Evocation		Flaming Sphere	Evocation	C
Thunderclap	Evocation		Gust of Wind	Evocation	C
True Strike	Divination		Hold Person	Enchantment	C
			Invisibility	Illusion	C
LEVEL 1 SORCERER SPELLS
Spell
Burning Hands Charm Person Chromatic Orb Color Spray
Comprehend Languages Detect Magic
Disguise Self EKpeditious Retreat Folse Life
Feather Fall
School	Special Evocation Enchantment Evocation		M Illusion
Divination	R
Divination	C,R Illusion Transmutation		C Necromancy Transmutation
Fog Cloud
Crease	Conjuration
Conjuration	C	Web	Conjuration	C
Ice Knife	Conjuration		LEVEL 3 SORCERER SPELLS	
Jump
Mage Armor	Transmutation
Abjuration		Spell
Blink	School
Transmutation	Special
Magic Missile	Evocation		Clairvoyance	Divination	C,M
Roy of Sickness	Necromancy		Counterspe/1	Abjuration	
Shield	Abjuration		Daylight	Evocation	
Silent Image	Illusion	C	Dispel Magic	Abjuration	
Sleep	Enchantment	C	Fear	Illusion	C



CHAPTER 3 I CHARACTl!R Cl.ASSES	143
Spell	School	Special	Spell	School	Special
Fireball	Evocation		Telekinesis	Transmutation	C
Fly	Transmutation	C	Teleportation Circle	Conjuration	M
Gaseous Form	Transmutation	C	Wall of Stone	Evocation	C





















LEVEL 4 SORCERER SPELLS
Spell	School	Special
LEVEL 6 SORCERER SPELLS
Spell	School	Special
Arcane Gate	Conjuration	C
Chain Lightning	Evocation
Circle of Death	Necromancy	M
Disintegrate	Transmutation
Eyebite	Necromancy	C
Flesh to Stone	Transmutation C Globe of Invulnerability	 Abjuration	C Moss Suggestion	 Enchantment
Move Earth	Transmutation	C
Otiluke's Freezing Sphere	Evocation
Sunbeam	Evocation	C
True Seeing	Divination	M
Banishment
Blight
Abjuration	C
Necromancy	LEVEL 7 SORCERER SPELLS
Charm Monster
Enchantment	Spell
School	Special
Confusion Dimension Door Dominate Beast Fire Shield Greater Invisibility Ice Storm
Polymorph
Enchantment	 C Conjuration Enchantment	C Evocation
Illusion	C
Evocation Transmutation	C
Delayed Blast Fireball Etherealness
Fingerof Death
Fire Storm Plane Shift Prismatic Spray Reverse Gravity
Evocation	 C Conjuration Necromancy Evocation Conjuration	M Evocation Transmutation	 C
Stoneskin Vitriolic Sphere
Transmutation	C,M	Teleport	Conjuration
Evocation	LEVEL 8 SORCERER SPELLS
Wall of Fire	Evocation	C	Spell	School	Special
LEVEL 5 SORCERER SPELLS
Demiplane Dominate Monster
Conjuration Enchantment	C
Spell
Animate Objects Bigby's Hand Cloudki/1
School	Special
Transmutation	C	Earthquake
Evocation	C	Incendiary Cloud
Conjuration	C	PowerWord Stun
Transmutation	C
Conjuration	C Enchantment
Cone of Cold Creation
Evocation	Sunburst	Evocation
Illusion	LEVEL 9 SORCERER SPELLS
Dominate Person
Enchantment	C
Spell	School	Special
Hold Monster
Enchantment	C
Gate
Conjuration	C,M
Insect Plague Seeming
Conjuration	C Illusion
Meteor Swarm Power Word Kill
Evocation
Enchantment
Synoptic Static	Enchantment
Time Stop Wish
Transmutation Conjuration

144	CHAPTER 3 I CHARACTER CLASSES


SORCERER SUBCLASSES
A Sorcerer subclass is a specialization that grants you features at certain Sorcerer levels, as specified in the subclass. This section presents the Aberrant Sorcery, Clockwork Sorcery, Draconic Sorcery, and Wild Magic Sorcerysubclasses.
ABERRANT SORCERY
Wield Unnatural Psionic Power
An alien inAuence has wrapped its tendrils around your mind, giving you psionic power. You can now touch other minds with that power and alter the world around you. Will this power shine from you as a hopeful beacon to others? Or wiU you be a ter-ror to those who feel the stab of your mind?
Perhaps a psychic wind from the Astral Plane carried psionic energy to you. or you were exposed to the Far Realm's warping inAuence. Alternatively, you were implanted with a mind Aayer tadpole,
but your transformation into a mind Aayer never occurred; now the tadpole's psionic power is yours. However you acquired this power. your mind is aflame with it.
LEVEL 3: PSTONJC SPELLS
When you reach a Sorcerer I.eve)specified in the Psionic Spells table, you thereaA:er always have the listed spells prepared.

PSIONIC SPELLS
Sorcerer Level Spells
3	Arms of Hadar, Calm Emotions, Detect Thoughts, Dissonant Whis-pers, Mind Sliver
5	Hungerof Hadar, Sending
7		Evard's Black Tentacles, Summon Aberration
9	Rory's Telepathic Bond, Telekinesis
LEVEL 3: TELEPATHIC SPEECH
You can form a telepathic connection between your mind and the mind of another. As a Bonus Action, choose one creature you can.see within 30 feet of yourself. You and the chosen creature can com-munkate telepathically with each other while the two of you are within a number of miles of each other equal to your Charisma modifier (minimum of I mile). To understand each other, you each must mentally use a language the other knows.
The telepathic connection lasts for a number of minutes equal to your Sorcerer level. It ends early if you use this ability to form a connection with a different creature.
LEVEL 6: PsrONIC SORCERY
When you cast any level I+ spell from your Psionic Spells feature, you can cast it by expending a spell slot as normal or by spendjng a number of Sorcery Points equal to the spell's level. If you cast the spell using Sorcery Points, it requires no Verbal or So-matic components, and it requires no Material com-ponents unless they are consumed by the spell or have a cost specified in it.
LEVEL 6: PSYCHIC DEFENSES
You have Resistance to Psychic damage, and you have Advantage on saving th rows to avoid or end the Charmed or Frightened condition.
LEVEL )4: REVELATION IN FLESH
You can unleash the aberrant truth hidden within yourself. As a Bonus Action, you can spend 1Sor• cery Point or more to magically alter your body for 10 minutes. For each Sorcery Point you spend, you gain one of the following benefits of your choice, the effects of which last until the alteration ends.
Aquatic Adaptation. You gain a Swim Speed equal to twice your Speed, and you can breathe under-water. Gills grow from your neck or flare behind your ears, and your fingers become webbed or you gro\v \Vriggling cilia.
Glistening Flight. You gain a Fly Speed equal to your Speed, and you can hover. As you fly, your skin glistens with mucus or otherworldly light.
See the Invisible. You can see any Invisible crea-ture within 60 feet of yourself that isn't behind Total Cover.Your eyes also turn black or become writhing sensory tendrils.
Wormlike Movement. Your body, along with any equipment you are wearing or carrying, becomes slimy and pliable. You can move through any space as narrow as I inch, and you can spend 5 feet of movement to escape from nonmagical restraints or the Grappled cond.ition.
LEVEL 18: WARPINC IMPLOSION
You can unleash a space-wa,·ping anomaly. As a Magic action, you teleport to an unoccupied space you can see within 120 feet of yourself. Immediately aA:er you disappear, each creature within 30 feet
of the space you leA: must make a Strength saving throw against your spell save DC. On a failed save, a creature takes 3dl0 Force damage and is pulled straight toward the space you left, ending in an un-occupied space as close to your former space as pos-
sible. On a successful save, the creature takes half as much damage only.
Once you use this feature, you can't do so again until you finish a Long Rest unless you spend 5 Sor-cery Points (no action required) to restore your use of it.
CLOCKWORK SORCERY		
Channel Cosmic Forces of Order
The cosmic force of order has suffused you with magic. That power arises from Mechanus or a realm like it-a plane of existence shaped entirely by clock-work efficiency. You or someone from your lineage might have become entangled in the machinations of modrons, the orderly be.ings who inhabit Mecha-nus. Perhaps your ancestor even took part in the Great Modron March. Whatever its origin within you, the power of order can seem strange to others, but for you, it's part of a vast and glorious system.
LEVEL 3: CLOCKWORK SPELLS
When you reach a Sorcerer level specified in the Clockwork Spells table, you thereaA:er always have the listed spells prepared.

CLOCKWORK SPELLS
Sorcerer Level Spells
3	Aid, Alorm, Lesser Restoration, Protettion from Evil and Good
5	Dispel Magic, Protection from Energy
7		Freedom of Movement, Summon Construct
9	Greater Restoration, Waif of Force
In addition, consult the Manifestations of O,·der table and choose or randomly determine a way your connection to order manifests while you are casting any of your Sorcerer spells.

MANIFESTATIONS OF ORDER
1d6  Manifestation
    1 Spectral cogwheels hover behind you.
    2 The hands of a clock spin in your eyes.
    3 Your skin glows with a brassy sheen.
    4 Floating equations and geometric objects overlay your body.
    5 Your Spellcasting Focus temporarily takes the form of a Tiny clockwork mechanism.
    6 The ticking of gears or ringing of a clock can be heard by you and those affected by your magic.
LEVEL 3: RESTORE BALANCE
Your connection to the plane of absolute order allows you to equalize chaotic moments. When a creature you can see within 60 feet of yourself is about to roll a d20 with Advantage or Dis• advantage, you can take a Reaction to prevent the roll from beingaffected by Advantage and Disadvantage.


146	CHAPTER 3 I CHARACTER CLASSES
You can use this feature a number of timesequal to your Charisma modifier (minimum of once), and you regain all expended uses when you finish a Long Rest.
LEVEL 6: BASTION OF LAW
You can tap into the grand equation of existence to imbue a creature with a shimmering shield of order. As a Magic action, you can expend I to 5 Sorcery Points to create a magical ward around yourself
or another creature you can see within 30 feet of yourself. The ward is represented by a number of d8s equal to the number of Sorcery Pointsspent to create it. When the warded creature takes damage, it can expend a number of those dice, roll them. and reduce the damage taken by the total rolled on those dice.
The ward lasts until you finish a Long Rest or un-til you use this feature again.
LEVEL 14: TRANCE OF ORDER
You gain the ability to align your consciousness with the endless calculations of Mechanus. As a Bonus Action, you can enter thisstate for 1 minute. For the duration, attack rolls against you can't ben-efit from Advantage, and whenever you make a 020 Test, you can treat a roll of9 or lower on the d20 as a 10.
Once you use this feature, you can't use it again until you finish a Long Rest unless you spend 5 Sor-cery Points (no action required) to restore your use of it.
LEVEL 18: CLOCKWORK CAVALCADE
You momentarily summon spirits of order to ex-punge disorder around you.As a Magic action, you summon the spirits in a 30-foot Cube originating from you. The spirits look like modrons or other Constructs of your choice. The spirits are intangible and invulnerable, and they create the effects below within the Cube before vanishing. Once you use this action, you can't use it again until you finish a Long Rest unless you spend 7 Sorcery Points (no action requfred) to restore your use of it.
Heal. The spirits restore up to 100 Hit Points, divided as you choose amongany number of crea-tures of your choice in the Cube.
Repair. Anydamaged objects entirely in the Cube are repaired instantly.
Dispel. Every spell of level 6 and lower ends on creatures and objects of your choice in the Cube.



DRACONIC SORCERY
Br-eathe the Magicof Dragons
Your innate magic comes from the gift of a dragon. Perhaps an ancient dragon facing death bequeathed some of its magical power to you or your ancestor. You might have absorbed magic from a site infused with dragons' power. Or perhaps you handled a treasure taken from a dragon's hoard that was steeped in draconic pow·er. Or you might have a dragon for an ancestor.
LEVEL 3: DRACONIC RESJLIENCE
The magic in your body manifests physical traits of your draconic gift. Your Hit Point maitimum increases by 3, and it increases by I whenever you gain another Sorcerer level.
Parts of you are also covered by dragon-like scales. While you aren't wearing armor, your base Armor Class equals10 plus your Dexterity and Cha· risma modifiers.
LEVEL 3: DRACONIC SPELLS
When you reach a Sorcerer level specified in the Draconic Spells table, you thereafter always have the listed spells prepared.

DRACONIC SPELLS
Sorcerer Level Spells
3	Alter Self,Chromatic Orb, Command, Dragon's Breath
5	Fear, Fly
7	Arcane Eye, Charm Monster
9	Legend Lore, Summon Dragon
LEVEL 6: ELEMENTAL AFFINITY
Your draconic magic has an affinity with a damage type associated with dragons. Choose one of those types: Acid, Cold, fire, Lightning, or Poison.
You have Resistance to that damage type, and when you cast a spell that deals damage of that type, you can add your Charisma modifier to one damage roll of that spelI.
LEVEL 14: DRAGON WINGS
As a Bonus Action, you can cause draconic wings to appear on your back.The wings last for I hour or until you dismjss them (no action required). For the duration, you have a FlySpeed of 60 feet.
Once you use this feature, you can't use it again until you finish a Long Rest unless you spend 3 Sor· cery Points (no action required) to restore your use of it.

LEVEL 18: DRAGON COMPANION
You can cast Summon Dragon without a Material component. You can also cast it once without a spell slot, and you regain the ability to cast it in this ,vay when you finish a Long Rest.
Whenever you start casting the spell, you can modify it so that it doesn't require Concentration. If you do so, the spell's duration becomes1 minute for that casting.
WILD MAGIC SORCERY		
Unleash Chaotic Magic
Your innate magic stems from the forces of chaos that underlie the order of creation. You or an ancestor might have endured exposure to raw magic, perhaps through a planar portal leading
to Limbo or the Elemental Planes. Perhaps you were blessed by a fey being or marked bya de-mon. Or your magic could bea fluke with no apparent cause. Whatever its source, this magic churns within you, waiting for anyoutlet.
LEVEL 3: WILD MAGIC SURGE
Your spellcasting can unleash surges of untamed magic. Once per turn, you can ro11 ld20 immedi-ately after you cast a Sorcerer spell with a spell slot. If you roll a 20, roll on the Wild Magic Surge table to create a magical effect.
If the magical effect is a spell, it is too wild to be affected by your Metamagic.
LEVEL 3: TlOES OF CHAOS
You can manipulate chaos itself to give yourself Advantage on one D20 Test before you roll the d20. Once you do so, you must cast a Sorcerer spell with a spell slot or finish a Long Rest be-fore you can use this feature again.
Ir you do cast a Sorcerer spell with a spell slot before you finish a Long Rest. you auto-matically roll on the Wild MagicSurge table.
LEVEL 6: BEND LUCK
You have the ability to twist fate using your wild magic. Immediately after another creature you can see rolls the d20 for a D20 Test, you can take a Reaction and spend ISorcery Point to roll ld4 and apply the number rolled as a bonus or penalty (your choice) to the d20 roll.
LEVEL 14: CONTROLLED CHAOS
You gain a modicum of control over the surges of your wild magic. Whenever you roll on the Wild Magic Surge table, you can roll twice and use ei-ther number.





r49
LRVEL 18: TAMED SURGE
Immediately after you cast a Sorcerer spell with a spell slot, you cancreate an effect of your choice from the Wild Magic Surge table instead of rolling on that table. You can choose any effect in the table except for the final row. andif thechosen effect in-volves a roll, youmust make it.
Once you use this feature, you can't do so again until youfinish a LongRest.

WILD MAGIC SURGE
ldl00  Effect
01-04 Roll on this table at the start of each of your turns for the next minute, ignoring this re-sult on subsequent rolls.
05-08 A creature that is Friendly toward you ap-pears in a random unoccupied space within 60 feet of you. The creature is under the DM's control and disappears 1 minute later.
Roll ld4 to determine the creature: on a
l, a Modron Duodrone appears: on a 2, a Flumph appears; on a 3, a Modron Mono-drone appears; on a 4, a Unicorn appears. See the Monster Manual for the creature's stat block.
09-12 For the next minute, you regain 5 Hit Points at the start of each of your turns.
13-16 Creatures have Disadvantage on saving throws against the next spell you cast in the next minute that involves a saving throw.
17-20  You are subjected to an effect that lasts for 1 minute unless its description says other-wise. Roll ld8 to determine the effect: on a 1, you're surrounded by faint, ethereal music only you and creatures within 5 feet of you can hear; on a 2, your size increases by one size category; on a 3, you grow a long beard made of feathers that remains until you sneeze, at which point the feathers explode from your face and vanish; on a 4, you must shout when you speak; on a 5, illusory but• terflies flutter in the air within 10 feet of you; on a 6, an eye appears on your forehead, granting you Advantage on Wisdom (Per-ception) checks; on an 7, pink bubbles float
out of your mouth whenever you speak; on an 8, your skin turns a vibrant shade of blue for 24 hours or until the effect is ended by a Remove Curse spell.
21-24 For the next minute, all your spells with a casting time of an action have a casting time of a Bonus Action.
ldl00  Effect
25-28 You are transported to the Astral Plane until the end of your next turn. You then return to the space you previously occupied or the nearest unoccupied space if that space is occupied.
29-32 The next time you cast a spell that deals damage within the next minute, don't roll the spell's damage dice for the damage. In-stead use the highest number possible for each damage die.
33-36 You have Resistance to all damage for the next minute.
37-40  You turn into a potted plant until the start of your next turn. While you're a plant, you have the Incapacitated condition and have Vulnerability to all damage. If you drop to 0 Hit Points, your pot breaks, and your form reverts.
41-44 For the next minute, you can teleport up to 20 feet as a Bonus Action on each of your turns.
45-48 You and up to three creatures you choose within 30 feet of you have the Invisible con-dition for 1 minute. This invisibility ends on a creature immediately after it makes an at-tack roll, deals damage, or casts a spell.
49-52 A spectral shield hovers near you for the next minute, granting you a +2 bonus to AC and immunity to Magic Missile.
53-56 You can take one extra action on this turn. 57-60 You cast a random spell. If the spell nor-
mally requires Concentration, it doesn't
require Concentration in this case; the spell lasts for its full duration. Roll ldl0 to determine the spell: on al, Confusion; on a 2, Fireball; on a 3, Fog Cloud; on a 4, Fly
(cast on a random creature within 60 feet of you), on a 5, Grease; on a 6, Levitate (cast on yourself); on a 7, Magic Missile (cast as a level 5 spell); on an 8, Mirror Image; on a 9, Polymorph (cast on yourself), and if you fail the saving throw, you turn into a Goat (see appendix B); on a 10, See Invisibility.
61-64 For the next minute, any flammable, non-magical object you touch that isn't being worn or carried by another creature bursts into flame, takes ld4 Fire damage, and is burning.


150	CHAPTER 3 I CHARACTER CLASSES
ldl00  Effect
65-68 If you die within the next hour, you immedi-ately revive as ifby theReincarnate spell.
69-72 You have the Frightened condition until the end of your next turn. The DM determines the source of your fear.
73-76 You teleport up to 60 feet to an unoccupied space you can see.
77-80 A random creature within 60 feet of you has the Poisoned condition for ld4 hours.
81-84 You radiate Bright Light in a 30-foot radius for the next minute. Any creature that ends its turn within 5 feet of you has the Blinded condition until theendof its next turn.
85-88 Up to three creatures of your choice that you can see within 30 feet of you take ldl0 Ne-crotic damage. You regain Hit Points equal to the sum of the Necrotic damage dealt.
ldl00  Effect
89-92 Up to three creatures of your choice that you can see within 30 feet of you take 4dl0 Lightning damage.
93-96 You and all creatures within 30 feet of you have Vulnerability to Piercing damage for the next minute.
97-00 Roll ld6: Ona 1, you regain 2d10 Hit Points; on a 2, one ally of your choice within 300 feet of you regains 2d10 Hit Points; on a 3, you regain your lowest-level expended spell slot; on a 4, one ally of your choice within 300 feet of you regains their lowest-level ex-pended spell slot; on a 5, you regain all your expended Sorcery Points; on a 6, all the ef-fects of row 17-20 affect you simultaneously.



CORE WARLOCK TRAITS	AS A MULTICLASS CHARACTER
Primary Ability
Hit Point Die
Saving Throw Proficiencies
Skill Proficiencies


Weapon Proficiencies Armor Training Starting Equipment


Charisma
08 per Warlock level Wisdom and Charisma
Choose 2: Arcana, Deception, History, Intimidation, lnvesti• gation, Nature, or Religion
Simple weapons Light armor
Choose A or B: (A) Leather Armor, Sickle, 2 Daggers, Arcane Focus (orb), Book (occult lore), Scholar's Pack, and 15 GP; or (8) 100 GP
    • 	Gain the following traits from the Core Warlock Traits table: Hit Point Die and training with Light armor.
,	Gain the Warlock's level I features. which are
listed in the Warlock Features table.See the mul· ticlassing rules in chapter 2 to determine your available spell slots.
WARLOCK CLASS FEATURES
As a Warlock, you gain the following class features when you reach the specified Warlock levels. These features are listed in the Warlock Features table.
LEVEL I: ELDRITCH INVOCATIONS
You have unearthed Eldritch Invocations. pieces of forbidden knowledge that imbue you with an abid• ing magical ability or other lessons. You gain one invocation of your choice, such as Pact of the Tome. Invocations are described in the "Eldritch lnvoca·
AR LOCKS QUEST FOR KNOWLEDGE
that lies hidden in the fabric of the mu!· tiverse.They often begin their search for
magical power bydelving into tomes of forbidden lore, dabbling in invocations meant to attract the power of extraplanar beings, or seeking places of power where the innuence of these beings can be felt. In no time. each Warlock is drawn into a bind· ing pact with a powerful patron. Drawing on the ancient knowledge of beings such as angels, archfey, demons, devils, hags, and alien entities of the Far Realm. Warlocks piece together arcane secrets to bolster their own power.
Warlocks view their patrons as resources. as means to the end of achieving magical power. Some Warlocks respect, revere, or even love their patrons; some serve their patrons grudgingly: and some seek to undermine their patrons even as they wield the power their patrons have given them.
Once a pact is made, a Warlock's thirst for know!· edge and power can't be slaked with mere study.
Most Warlocks spend their days pursuing greater power and deeper knowledge, which typically means some kind of adventure.
BECOMING A WARLOCK ...
As A LEVEL I CHARACTER
        ? Gain all the traits in the Core Warlock Traits table.
        ? Gain the Warlock's level I features, which are
listed in the Warlock Features table.

tion Options"section later in this class's description.
Prerequisites. If an invocation has a prerequisite, you must meet it to learn that invocation. For ex· ample, if an invocation requires you to be a level 5+ Warlock, you can select the Invocation once you reach Warlock level 5.
Repladng and Gaining Invocations. Whenever you gain a Warlock level, you can replace one of your invocations with another one for which you qualify. You can't replace an invocation if it's a prerequisite for another invocation that you have.
When you gain certain Warlock levels, you gain more invocations of your choice, as shown in the Invocations column of the Warlock Features table.
You can't pick the same invocation more than once unless its description says otherwise.
LEVEL I: PACT MACIC
Through occult ceremony. you have formed a pact with a mysterious entity to gain magical powers. The entity is a voice in the shadows-its identity unclear-but its boon to you is concrete: the ability to cast spells. See chapter 7 for the rules on spell· casting. The information below details how you use those rules with Warlock spells, which appear in the Warlock spell list later in the class's description.
Cantrips. You know two Warlock cantrips of your choice. Eldritch Blast and Prestidigitation are recom· mended. Whenever you gain a Warlock level, you can replace one of your cantrips from this feature
,vith another Warlock cantrip of your choice.
When you reach Warlock levels 4 and 10, you learn another Warlock cantrip of your choice, as shown in the Cantripscolumn of the Warlock Fea· tures table.
CHAPTER 3 I CIIARACTf:R CLASSES	153


WARLOCK FEATURES

Spell Slots.The Warlock Features tableshows how many spell slots you have to cast your Warlock spells of levels 1-5. The table also shows the level
of those slots, all of which are the same level. You regain all expended Pact Magic spell slots when you finish a Short or Long Rest.
For example, \vhen you're a level 5 Warlock. you have two level 3 spell slots. Tocast the level I spell Witch Bolt. you must spend one of those slots, and you cast it as a level 3 spell.
Prepared Spells of Levell+. You prepare the list of level I+spells that are available for you to cast with this feature. Tostart, choose two level I Warlock spells. Charm Persan and Hex are recommended.
The number of spells on your list increases as you gain Warlock levels, as shown in the Prepared Spells column of the Warlock Features table. Whenever that number increases. choose additional War-
lock spells until the number of spells on your list matches the number in the table. The chosen spells must be of a level no higher than what's shown in the table's Slot Level column for your level. When you reach level 6, for example, you learn a new War-lock spell, which can be of levels 1-3,
If another Warlock feature gives you spells that you always have prepared, those spells don't count against the number of spells you can prepare with
this feature, but those spells otherwise count as Warlock spells for you.
Changing Your Prepared Spells. Whenever you
gain a Warlock level, you can replace one spell on your list with another Warlock spell of an eligible level.
Spellcasting Ability. Charisma is the spellcasting
ability for your Warlock spells.
Spellcasting Focus. You can use an Arcane Focus as a Spellcasting Focus for your Warlock spells.
LEVEL 2: MAGICAL CUNNING
You can perform an esoteric rite for I minute. At the end of it, you regain expended Pact Magic spell slots but no more than a number equal to half your max-imum (round up). Once you use this feature, you can't do so again until you finish a Long Rest.
LEVEL 3: WARLOCK SUBCLASS
You gain a Warlock subclass of your choice. The Archfey Patron, Celestial Patron. Fiend Patron, and Great Old One Patron subclasses are detailed after this class's description. A subclass is a specialization that grants you features at certain Warlock levels. tor the rest of your career, you gain each of your subclass's features that are of your Warlock level or lower.


154	CHAPTER 3 I CHARACTER CLASSES
LEVEL 4: ABILITY SCORE IMPROVEMENT
You gain the Ability Score Improvement feat (see chapter 5) or another feat of your choice for which you qualify. You gain this feature again at Warlock levels 8, 12, and 16.
LEVEL 9: CONTACT PATRON
In the past, you usually contacted your patron through intermediaries. Now you can communicate directly; you always have the Contact Other Plane spell prepared. With this feature, you can cast the spell without expending a spell slot to contact your patron, and you automatically succeed on thespell's saving throw.
Once you cast the spell with this feature, you can't do so in this way again until you finish a Long Rest.
LEVEL 11: MYSTIC ARCANUM
Your patron grants you a magical secret called an arcanum. Choose one level 6 Warlock spell as this arcanum.
You can cast your arcanum spell once without ex-pending a spell slot. and you must finish a Long Rest before you can cast it in this way again.
As shown in the Warlock F'eatures table, you gain another Warlock spell of your choice that can be cast in this way when you reach Warlock levels13 (level 7 spell), 15 (level 8 spell), and 17 (level 9 spell). You regain all uses of your Mystic Arcanum when you finish a Long Rest.
Whenever you gain a Warlock level, you can re-place one of your arcanum spells with another War· lockspell of the same level.
LEVEL 19: EPIC BOON
You gain an Epic Boon feat (see chapter 5) or an-other feat of your cha.ice for which you qualify. Boon of Fate is recommended.
LEVEL 20: ELDRITCH MASTER
When you use your Magical Cunning feature, you regain all your expended Pact Magic spell slots.
ELDRITCH INVOCATION OPTIONS
Eldritch Invocation options appear in alphabetical order.
AGONIZING BLAST
Prerequisite: Level 2+Warlock. a Warlock Cantrip That Deals Damage
Choose one of your known Warlock cantrips that deals damage. You can add your Charisma modifier to that spell's damage rolls.
Repeatable. You can gain this invocation more than once. Each time you do so, choose a different eligible cantrip.
ARMOR OF SHADOWS
You can cast Mage Armor on yourself without ex-pending a spell slot.
ASCENDANT STEP
Prerequisite: Level S+Warlock
You can cast Levitate on yourself without expending a spell slot.
DEVIL'S SIGHT
Prerequisite: Level 2+Warlock
You can see normaHy in Dim Light and Darkness-both magical and nonmagical-within 120 feet of yourself.
DEVOURING BLADE
Prerequisite: Level 12+ Warlock, Thirsting Blade Invocation
The Extra Attack of your Thirsting Blade invoca-tion confers two extra attacks rather than one.
ELDRITCH MIND
You have Advantage on Constitution saving throws that you make to maintain Concentration.
ELDRITCH SMITE
Prerequisite: Level 5+Warlock, Pact of the Blade Invocation
Once per turn when you hit a creature with your pact weapon, you can expend a Pact Magic spell slot to deal an extra ld8 Force damage to the target, plus another 1d8 per level of the spell slot, and you can give the target the Prone condition if it is Huge or smaller.
ELDRITCR SPEAR
Prerequisite: Level 2+ Warlock, a Warlock Cantrip That Deals Damage
Choose one of your known Warlock cantrips that deals damage and has a range of 10+feet. When you cast that spell, its range increases by a number of feet equal to 30 times your Warlock level.
Repeatable. You can gain this invocation more than once. Each time you do so, choose a different eligible cantrip.
FIENDISH VIGOR
Prerequisite: Level 2+Warlock
You can cast False Life on yourself without expend-ing a spell slot. When you cast the spell with th.is feature, you don't roll the die for the Temporary Hit Points; you automatically get the highest number on the die.






CHAPTER.3 I CHARACTER. CLASSES	r55
GAZŁ OF Tuo  MrNDS
Prerequisite: Level 5,.Warlock
You can usea Bonus Action to touch a willing creature and perceive through its senses until the end of your next turn. As long as the creature is on the same plane of existence as you. you can take a Bonus Action on subsequent turns to maintain this connection, extending the duration until the end of your next turn. The connection ends if you don't maintain it in this way.
While perceiving through the other creature's senses, you benefit from any special senses pos-sessed by that creature, and you can cast spells as if you were in your space or the other creature's space if the two of you are within 60 feet of each other.
GIFT OFTHŁ OŁPTHS
Prerequisite: Level 5• Warlock
You can breathe underwater, and you gain a Swim Speed equal to your Speed.
You can also cast Water Breathing once without expending a spell slot. You regain the ability to cast it in this way again when you finish a Long Rest.
GIFT OFTHE PROTECTORS
Prerequisite: Level 9• Warlock, Pact of the Tome
Invocation
A new page appears in your Book of Shadows when you conjure it. With your permission, a creature can take an action to write its name on that page, which can contain a number of names equal to your Charisma modifier (minimum of one name).
When any creature whose name is on the page is reduced to O Hit Points but not killed outright, tbe creature magically drops to l Hit Point instead.
Once this magic is triggered, no creature can bene-fit from it until you finish a Long Rest.
As a Magic action, you can erase a name on the page by touching it.
{NVESTMENT OF THE CHAIN MASTER
Prerequisite: Level S• Warlock, Pact of the Chain
Invocation
When you castfind Familiar, you infuse the sum-moned familiar with a measure of your eldritch power, granting the creature the following benefits.
Aerial or Aquatic. The familiar gains either a Ply
Speed or a Swim Speed (your choice) of 40 feet. Quick Attack. As a Bonus Action, you can com-
mand the familiar to take the Attack action. Necrotic or Radiant Damage. Whenever the famil-
iar deals Bludgeoning, Piercing, or Slashingdamage, you can make it deal Necrotic or Radiant damage instead.
Your Save DC. If the familiar forces a creature to make a saving throw, it uses your spell save DC.
Resistance. When the familiar takesdamage, you can take a Reaction to grant it Resistance against that damage.
LESSONS OF THE FIRST ONES
Prerequisite: Level 2+Warlock
You have received knowledge from an elder entity of the multiverse, allowing you to gain one Origin feat of your choice (see chapter 5).
Repeatable. You can gain this invocation more than once. Each time you do so, choose a different Origin feat.
LIFŁDRINKER
Prerequisite: Level 9+Warlock, Pactof the Blade Invocation
Once per turn when you hit a creature with your pact weapon, you can deal an extra td6 Necrotic, Psychic. or Radiant damage (your choice) to the creature, and you can expend one of your Hit Point Dice to roll it and regain a number of Hit Points equal to the roll plus your Constitution modifier (minimum of I Hit Point).
MASK OF MANY FACES
Prerequisite: Level 2+Warlock
You can cast Disguise Self without expending a spell slot.
MASTER OF MYRIAD FORMS
Prerequisite: Level S• Warlock.
You can cast Alter Self without expending a spelJ slot.
MISTY VISIONS
Prerequisite: Level 2• Warlock
You can cast Silent Image without expending a spell slot.
ONE WITH SHADOWS
Prerequisite: Level5• Warlock
While you're in an area of Dim Light or Darkness, you can cast Invisibility on yourself without expend-
;ng a spell slot.
OTHŁRWORLDLY LEAP
Prerequisite: Level 2+Warlock
You can castJump on yourself without expending a spell slot.
PACT OF THE BLADE
As a Bonus Action, you can conjure a pact weapon in your hand-a Simple or Martial Melee weapon of your choice with which you bond-or create a bond with a magic weapon you touch; you can't bond with a magic weapon if someone else is attuned to it or another Warlock is bonded with it. Until the


156	CHAPTER 3 I CHARACTER CLASSES

bond ends, you have proficiency with the weapon, and you can use it as a Spellcasting Focus.
Whenever you attack with the bonded weapon, you can use your Charisma modifier for the at-tack and damage rolls instead of using Strength or Dexterity; and you can cause the weapon to deal Necrotic, Psychic, or Radiant damage or its normal damage type.
Your bond with the weapon ends if you use this feature's Bonus Action again, if the weapon is more than 5 feet away from you for I minute or more, or if you die. A conjured weapon disappears when the bond ends.
PACT OF THE CHAfN
You learn the find Familiarspell and can cast it as a Magic action without expending a spell slot.
When you cast the spell, you choose one of the normal forms for your familiar or one of the fol-lowing special forms: lmp, Pseudodragon, Qua-sit, Skeleton, Slaad Tadpole, Sphinx of Wonder, Sprite, or Venomous Snake (see appendix B for the familiar's stat block).
Additionally, when you take the Attack action, you can forgo one of your own attacks to allow your familiar to make one attack of its own with its Reaction.
PACT OF THE TOME
Stitching together strands of shadow, you conjure forth a book in your hand at the end of a Short or Long Rest.This Book of Shadows (you determine its appearance) contains eldritch magic that only you can access, grantingyou the benefits below. The book disappears if you conjure another book with this feature or if you die.
Cantrips and Rituals.Wben the book appears, choose three cantrips, and choose two level I spells that have the Ritual tag. The spells can be from any class's spell list. and they must be spells you don't already have prepared. While the book is on your person, you have the chosen spells prepared, and they function as Warlock spells for you.
SpellcasHng Focus. You can use the book as a Spellcasting Focus.
TuIRSTING BLADE
Prerequisite: Level 5+Warlock, Pact of the Blade Invocation
You gain the Extra Attack feature for your pact weapon only. With that feature, you can attack twice with the weapon instead of once when you take the Attack action on your turn.
VISJONS OF DISTANT REALMS
Prerequisite: Level 9• Warlock
You can cast Arcane Eye without expending a spell slot.
WHISPERS OF THE GRAVE
Prerequisite: Level 7• Warlock
You can cast Speak with Dead without expending a spell slot.
WITCH SIGHT
Prerequisite:Level 15• Warlock
You have Truesight with a range of 30 feet.
WARLOCK SPELL LIST
Thissection presents the Warlock spell list. The spells are organized by spell level and then alpha-betized, and each spell's school of magic is listed. In the Special column, C means the spell requires
Concentration, R means it's a Ritual, andM means it
requires a specific Material component.

CANTRIPS (LEVEL O WARLOCK SPELLS)

Spell	School	Special
Blade Ward
Chill Touch	Abjuration
Necromancy	C
Eldritch Blast	Evocation	
Friends
Mage Hand	Enchantment
Conjuration	C
Mind Sliver
Mirror Illusion Poison Spray	Enchantment
Illusion Necromancy	
Spell Prestidigitation Thunderclap Toll the Dead True Strike

LEVEL 1 WARLOCK SPELL
Spell	School	Special	Summon Fey


Conjuration	C,M
Armor of Agathys	Abjuration
Summon Undead
Necromancy	C,M
Arms of Hadar	Conjuration	Tongues
Divination
Bane	Enchantment	C
Charm Person	Enchantment
Vampiric Touch
Necromancy	C
Comprehend Languages	Divination	R	LEVEL 4 WARLOCK SPELLS
al

Hellish Rebuke Hex
Illusory Script
Protection from Evil and	Abjuration	C,M	Hallucinatory Terrain	Illusion	
Good			Summon Aberration	Conjuration	C,M

LEVEL 5 WARLOCK SPELLS
Spell	School	Special
Witch Bolt	Evocation	C	Contact Other Plane	Divination	R
Dream	Illusion

LEVEL 2 WARLOCK SPELLS			Hold Monster	Enchantment	C
Spell	School	Special	Jallarzi's Storm of Radiance	Evocation	C
Cloud of Daggers	Conjuration	C	Mislead	Illusion	C
Crown of Madness	Enchantment	C	Planar Binding	Abjuration	M
Darkness	Evocation	C	Scrying	Divination	C,M
Enthrall	Enchantment	C	Synaptic Static	Enchantment	
Hold Person	Enchantment	C	Teleportation Circle	Conjuration	M

LEVEL 6 WARLOCK SPELLS
Spell	School	Special
Arcane Gate	Conjuration	C
Circle of Death	Necromancy	M
Create Undead	Necromancy	M
Suggestion	Enchantment	C	Eyebite	Necromancy	C
Summon Fiend	Conjuration	C,M
LEVEL 3 WARLOCK SPELLS			Tasha's Bubbling Cauldron	Conjuration	M
Spell
Counterspell	School
Abjuration	Special	True Seeing	Divination	M
Dispel Magic	Abjuration		
Fear	Illusion	C	
Fly	Transmutation	C	


158	CHAPTER 3 I CHARACTER CLASSES
LEVEL 7 WARLOCK SPELLS

Spell
Etherealness	School
Conjuration	Special
Fingerof Death
Forcecage	Necromancy
Evocation	
C,M
Plane Shift	Conjuration	M

LEVEL 8 WARLOCK SPELLS
Spell	School	Special
Befuddlement	Enchantment
Demiplane	Conjuration
Dominate Monster	Enchantment	C
Glibness	Enchantment
PowerWord Stun	Enchantment

LEVEL 9 WARLOCK SPELLS

Spell	School	Special
Astral Projection	Necromancy	M
Foresight	Divination	
Gate	Conjuration	C,M
Imprisonment	Abjuration	M
Power Word Kill	Enchantment	
True Polymorph	Transmutation	C
Weird	Illusion	C

WARLOCK SUBCLASSES
A Warlock subclass is a specialization that grants you featu.res at certain Warlock levels, as specified in the subclass. This section presents the Archfey Patron, Celestial Patron, Fiend Patron, and Great Old One Patron subclasses.
ARCHFEY PATRON		
Bargain with Whimsical Fey
Your pact draws on the power of the Feywild. When you choose this subclass, you might make a deal with an archfey,such as the Prince of Frost; the Queen of Air and Darkness, ruler of the Gloaming Court; Titania of the Summer Court; or an ancient hag. Or you might call on a spectrum of Fey, weav-ing a web of favors and debts. Whoever theyare, your patron is often inscrutable and whimsical.
LEVEL 3: ARCH FEY SPELLS
The magic of your patron ensures you always have certain spells ready; wbea you reach a Warlock level specified in the Archfey Spells table, you thereafter always have the listed spells prepared.
ARCHFEY SPELLS
Warlock Level Spells
3	Calm /:motions, Faerie Fire, Misty Step, Phantasmal Force, Sleep
5	Blink, Plant Growth
    7 Dominate Beast, Greater Invisibility
9	Dominate Person, Seeming
LEVEL 3: STEPS OF THE FEY
Your patron grants you the ability to move between the boundaries of the planes. You can cast Misty Step without expending a spell slot a number of times equal to your Charisma modifier (minimum of once), and you regain all expended uses when you finish a Long Rest.
In addition, whenever you cast that spell, you can choose one of the following additional effects.
Refreshing Step. Immediately after you teleport, you or one creature you can see within 10 feet of yourself gains ldl0 Temporary Hit Points.
Taunting Step. Creatures within 5 feet of the space you left must succeed on a Wisdom saving throw against your spell save DC or have Disadvantage on attack rolls against creatures other than you until the start of your next turn.
LEVEL 6: MISTY ESCAPE
You can cast Misty Step as a Reaction in response to takingdamage.
In addition, the following effects are now among your Steps of the Fey options.
Disappearing Step. You have the Invisible condi-tion until the start of your next turn or until imme-diately after you make an attack roll, deal damage. or cast a spell.
Dreadful Step. Creatures within 5 feet of the space you left or the space you appear in (your choice) must succeed on a Wisdom saving throw against your spell save DC or take 2dl0 Psychic damage.
LEVEL IO, BEGUILING DEFENSES
Your patron teaches you how to guard your mind and body. You are immune to the Cha1·med condition.
In addition, immediately after a creature you can see hits you with an attack roll, you can take a Reac• tion to reduce the damage you take by half (round down), and you can force tbe attacker to make a Wisdom saving throw against your spell save DC. On a failed save, the attacker takes Psychic damage equal to the damage you take. Once you use this Re-action, you can't use it again until you finish a Long Rest unless you expend a Pact Magic spell slot (no action required) to restore your use of it.




CHAPTER 3) CHARACTER CLASSES	159


LEVEL 14: BEWITCHING MAGIC
Your patron grants you the ability to weave your magic with teleportation. Immediately after you cast an Enchantment or lllusion spell usingan ac-tion and a spell slot, you can cast MistyStep as part of the same action and without expending a spell slot.
CELESTIAL PATRON		
Call on the Powerof the Heavens
Your pact draws on the Upper Planes, the realms of everlasting bliss. You might enter an agreement with an empyrean, a couatl, a sphinx, a unicorn, or another heavenly entity. Or you might call on numerous such beings as you pursue goals aligned with theirs. Your pact allows you to experience a
hint of the holy light that illuminates the multiverse.
LEV.EL 3: CELESTIAL SPELLS
The magic of your patron ensures you always have certain speUs ready; when you reach a Warlock level specified in tbe Celestial Spells table, you thereafter always have the listed spells prepared.

CELESTIAL SPELLS
Warlock Level Spells
3	Aid, Cure Wounds, Guiding Bolt, Lesser Restoration, Light,
Sacred Flame
5	Daylight, Revivify
7	Guardian of Faith, Wall of Fire
9	Greater Restoration, Summon Celestial
LEVEL 3: HEALING LICHT
You gain the ability to channel celestial energy to heal wounds. You have a pool of d6s to fuel this healing. Tbe number of dice in the pool equals l plus your Warlock level.
As a Bonus Action, you can heal yourself or one
creature you can see within 60 feet of yourself, expending dice from the pool.The maximum num-ber of dice you can expend at once equals your Charisma modiAer (minimum of one die). Roll the dice you expend, and restore a number of Hit Points equal to the rail's total. Your pool regains all ex-pended dice when you finish a Long Rest.
LEVEL 6: RADIANT SOUL
Your link to your patron allows you to serve as a conduit for radiant energy. You have Resistance to Radiant damage. Once per turn, when a spell you cast deals Radiant or Fire damage, you can add your Charisma modifier to that spell's damage against one of the spell's targets.
LEVEL 10: CELESTlAL RESILIENCE
You gain Temporary Hjt Points whenever you use your Magical Cunning feature or finish a Short or Long Rest. These Temporary Hit Points equal your Warlock level plus your Charisma modifier.
Additionally, choose up to live creatures you can see when you gain the points. Those creatures each gain Temporary Hit Points equal to half your War-lock level plus your Charisma modifier.
LEVEL 14: SEARTNG VENGEANCE
When you or an aUy within 60 feet of you is about to make a Death SavingThrow, you can unleash ra-diant energy to save the creature. The creature re-gains Hit Points equal to half its Hit Point maximum and can end the Prone condition on itself. Each creature of your choice that is within 30 feet of the creature takes Radiant damage equal to 2d8 plus your Charisma modifier, and each has the Blinded condition until the end of the current turn.
Once you use this feature, you can't use it again until you finish a Long Rest.
FIEND PATRON
Make a Deal with the Lower Planes
Your pact draws on the Lower Planes, the realms of perdition. You might forge a bargain with a demon lord such as Demogorgon or Orcus; an archdevil such as Asmodeus; or a pit fiend, balor, yugoloth,
or night hag that is especially mighty. That patron's aims are evil-the corruption or destruction of all things, ultimately including you-and your path is defined by the extent to which you strive against those aims.
LEVEL 3: DARK ONE'S BLESSING
When you reduce an enemy to 0 Hit Points, you gain Temporary Hit Points equal to your Charisma modifier plus your Warlock level (minimum of I Temporary Hit Point). You also gain this benefit if someone else reduces an enemy within 10 feet of you to 0 Hit Points.
LEVEL 3: FIEND SPELLS
The magic of your patron ensures you always have certain spells ready; when you reach a Warlock level specified in the Fiend Spells table, you thereafter always have the listed spells prepared.

FIEND SPELLS
Warlock Level Spells
3		Burning Hands, Command, Scorching Roy, Suggesiion
5	Fireball, Slinking Cloud
7	Fire Shield, Wall of Fire
9	Geas, lnsecl Plague
LEVEL 6: DARK ONE'S OWN LUCK
You can call on your fiendish patron to alter fate in your favor. When you make an ability check or a saving throw. you can use this feature to add ldlO to your roll. You can doso after seeing the roll but before any of the roll's effects occur.
You can use this feature a number of times equal to your Charisma modifier (minimum of once), but you can use it no more than once per roll. You re-gain all expended uses when you finish a Long Rest.
LEVEL 10: FIENDISH RESILIENCE
Choose one damage type, other than Force, when-ever you finish a Short or Long Rest. You have Resistance to that damage type until you choose a different one ,vith this feature.
LEVEL 14-: HURL THROUGH HELL
Once per turn when you hit a creature with an attack roll, you can try to instantly transport the target through the Lower Planes. The target must succeed on a Charisma saving throw against your spell save DC, or the target disappears and hurtles through a nightmare landscape. The target takes 8dl0 Psychic damage if it isn't a Fiend, and it has the Incapacitated condition until the end of your next turn, when it returns to the space it previously occupied or the nearest unoccupied space.
Once you use this feature, you can't use it again until you finish a Long Rest unless you expend a Pact Magic spell slot (no action required} to restore your use of it.
GREAT OLD ONE PATRON
Unearth Forbidden Lore of Ineffable Beings
When you choose this subclass, you might bind yourself to an unspeakable being from the Far Realm or an elder god-a being such as Tharizdun, the Chained God; Zargon, the Returner; Hadar, the Dark Hunger; or Great Cthulhu. Or you might in-voke several entities without yoking yourself to one. The motives of these beings are incomprehensible, and the Great Old One might be indifferent to your existence. But the secrets you've learned neverthe-less allow you to draw strange magic from it.
LEVEL 3: AWAKENED MIND
You can form a telepathic connection between your mind and the mind of another. As a Bonus Action, choose one creature you ca"n see ,vithin 30 feet of yourself. You and the chosen creature can com-municate telepathically with each other while the two of you are within a number of miles of each other equal to your Charisma modifier (minimum of 1 mile). To understand each other, you each must mentally use a language the other knows.
The telepathic connection lasts for a number of minutes equal to your Warlock level. It ends early if you use this feature to connect with a different creature.
LEVEL 3: GREAT OLD ONE SPELLS
The magic of your patron ensures you always have certain spells ready; when you reach a Warlock level specified in the Great Old One Spells table, you thereaA:er always have the listed spells prepared.

GREAT Oto  ONE SPELLS
Warlock Level Spells
3	Detect Thoughts, Dissonant Whis-pers, Phantasmal Force, Tasha's Hideous Laughter
S	Clairvoyance, Hunger of Hadar
7	Confusion, Summon Aberration
9	Modify Memory, Telekinesis

LEVEL 3: PSYCHIC SPELLS
When you cast a Warlock spell that deals damage, you can change its damage type to Psychic. In addition, when you cast a Warlock spell that is an Enchantment or Illusion, you can do so without Verbal or Somatic components.
LEVEL 6: CLAIRVOYANT COMBATANT
When you form a telepathic bond with a creature using your Awakened Mind, you can force that creature to make a Wisdom saving throw against your spell save DC. On a failed save, the creature has Disadvantage on attack rolls against you, and you have Advantage on attack rolls against that creature for the duration of the bond.
Once you use this feature, you can't use it again until you finish a Short or Long Rest unless you ex-pend a Pact Magic spell slot (no action required) to restore your use of it.
LEVEL 10: ELDRrTCH HEX
Your alien patron grants you a powerful curse. You always have the Hex spell prepared. When you cast Hex and choose an ability, the target also has Disad-vantage on saving throws of the chosen ability for the duration of the spell.
LEVEL 10: THOUGHT SHIELD
Your thoughts can't be read by telepathy or other means unless you allow it. You also have Resistance to Psychic damage, and whenever a creature deals Psychic damage to you, that creature takes the same amount of damage that you take.
LEVl!L 14: CREATE THRALL
When you cast Summon Aberration, you can modify it so that it doesn't require Concentration. If you do so, the spell's duration becomes I minute for that casting, and when summoned, the Aberration has a number of Temporary Hit Points equal to your War-lock level plus your Charisma modifier.
In addition, the first ti.me each turn the Aberra· tion hits a creature under the effect of your Hex, the Aberration deals extra Psychic damage to the target equal to the bonus damage of that spell.

 
CORE WIZARD TRAITS
AS A MULTICLASS CHARACTER
Primary Ability
Hit Point Die
Saving Throw Proficiencies
Skill Proficiencies


Weapon Proficiencies Armor Training Starting Equipment



Intelligence
D6 per Wizard level Intelligence and Wisdom
Choose 2: Arcana, History, Insight, Investigation, Medi-cine, Nature, or Religion
Simple weapons None
Choose A or B: (A) 2 Daggers, Arcane Focus (Quarterstaff), Robe, Spellbook, Scholar's Pack, and 5 GP; or (8) 55 GP
    • 	Gain the Hit Point Die from the Core Wizard Traits table.
    • Gain the Wizard's level l features, which are listed in the Wizard Features table. See the multiclass· ing rules in chapter 2 to determine your available spell slots.
WIZARD CLASS FEATURES
As a Wizard, you gain the following class features when you reach the specified Wizard levels. These featw·es are listed in the Wizard Features table.
LEVELi: SPELLCASTING
As a student of arcane magic, you have learned to cast spells. See chapter 7 for the rules on spellcast-ing. The information below details how you use those rules with Wizard spells. which appear in the
IZARDS ARE DEFINED BY THEIR
exhaustive study of magic's inner work-ings. They cast spells of explosive fire,
arcinglightning, subtle deception, and spectacular transformations. Their magic conjures monsters from other planes of existence, glimpses the future, or forms protective barriers. Their mightiest spells change one substance into another, call meteors from the sky, or open portals to other worlds.
Most Wizards share a scholarly approach to magic. They examine the theoretical underpinnings of magic, particularly the categorization of spells into schools of magic. Renowned Wizards such as Bigby, Tasha, Mordenkai.oen, and Yolande have built on their studies to invent iconicspells now used across the multiverse.
The closest a Wizard is likely to come to an or-dinary life is working as a sage or lecturer. Other Wizards sell their services as advisers,serve in mili-tary forces, or pursue lives of crime or domination.
But the lure of knowledge calls even the most unadventurous Wizards from the safety of their libraries and laboratories and into crumbling  ru-ins and lost cities. Most Wizards believe that their counterparts in ancient civilizations knew secrets of magic that have been lost to the ages, and discov-
ering those secrets could unlock the path to a power greater than any magic available in the present age.
BECOMING A WIZARD ...
As A LEVEL I CHARACTER
        ? Gain all the traits in the Core Wizard Traits table.
        ? Gain the Wizard's level I features, which are listed in the Wizard Features table.
I
Wizard spell list later in the class's description.
Cantrips. You know three Wizard cantrips of your choice. Light, Mage Hand, and Ray of Frost are recom-mended. Whenever you finish a Long Rest, you can replace one of your cantrips from this feature with another Wizard cantrip of your choice.
When you reach Wizard levels 4 and 10, you learn another Wizard cantrip of your choice, as shown in the Cantrips column of the Wizard Features table.
Spellbook. Your wizardly apprenticeship cul-minated in the creation of a unique book: your spellbook. It is a Tiny object that weighs 3 pounds, contains 100 pages, and can be read only by you or someone casting Identify. You determine the book's appearance and materials, such as a gilt-edged tome or a collection of vellum bound with twine.
The book contains the level I+spells you know. It starts with six level I Wizard spells of your choice. Detect Magic, Feather Fall, Mage Armor, Magic Missile, Sleep,and Thunderwave are recommended.
Whenever you gain a Wizard level aft:er I, add two Wizard spells of your choice to your spellbook. Each of these spells must be of a level for which you have spell slots, as shown in the Wizard Features table. The spells are the culmination of arcane re· search you do regularly.
SpellSlots. The Wizard Features table shows how many spell slots you have to cast your level I+spells. You regain all expended slots when you finish a Long Rest.
Prepared Spells of Level1+. You prepare the list of level l+spells that are available for you to cast with this feature. To doso, choose four spells from your spellbook. The chosen spells must be of a level for which you have spell slots.




CHAPTER 3 I CHARACTER CLASSES	165
WIZARD FEATURES
Proficiency	Prepared	--Spell Slots per Spell Level--






























The number of spells on your list increases as you gain Wizard levels, as shown in the Prepared Spells column of the Wizard Features table. Whenever that number increases, choose additional Wiz-
ard spells until the number of spells on your list matches the number in the table.The chosen spells must be of a level for which you havespell slots. F'or example, if you're a level 3 Wizard. your list of pre-pared spells can include six spells of levels I and 2 in any combination, chosen from your spellbook.
If another Wizard feature gives you spells that you always have prepared, those spells don't count against the number of spells you can prepare with this feature, but those spells otherwise count as Wizard spells for you.
Changfog Your Prepared Spells. Whenever you finish a Long Rest, you can change your list of pre-pared spells, replacing any of the spells there with spells from your spellbook.
Spe/lcasting Ability. Intelligence is your spellcast-ing ability for your Wizard spells.
Spellcasting focus. You can use an Arcane Focus or your spellbook as a Spellcasting Focus for your Wizard spells.































LEVEl. I: RlTUALADEPT
You can cast anyspell as a Ritual if that spell has the Ritual tag and the spell is in your spellbook. You needn't have the spell prepared, but you must read from the book to cast a spell in this way.
LEVEL I: ARCANE RECOVERY
You can regain some of your magical energy by studying your spellbook. When you finish a Short Rest. you can choose expended spell slots to ,·ecover. The spell slots can have a combined level equal to no more than half your Wizard level (round up), and none of the slots can be level 6 or higher. For exam-ple, if you're a level 4 Wizard, you can recover up to two levels' worth of spell slots, regaining either one level 2 spell slot or two level I spelI slots.
Once you use this feature, you can't do so again until you finish a Long Rest.
LEVEL 2: SCHOLAR
While studying magic, you also specialized in an-other field of study. Choose one of the following skills in which you have proficiency: Arcana, His-tory, Investigation, Medicine, Nature, or Religion. You have Expertise in the chosen skill.



I66	CHAPTER 3 I CHARACTER CLASSES





The spells you add to your spellbook as you gain levels reflect your ongoing magical research, but you might find other spells during your adven-tures that you can add to the book. You could dis-cover a Wizard spell on a Spell Scroll. for example, and then copy it into your spellbook.
Copying a Spell into the Book. When you find a level 1+ Wizard spell, you can copy it into your spellbook if it's of a level you can prepare and
if you have time to copy it. For each level of the spell, the transcription takes 2 hours and costs 50 GP. Afterward you can prepare the spell like the other spells in your spellbook.
Copying the Boak. You can copy a spell from
your spellbook into another book. This is like copying a new spell into your spellbook but faster, since you already know how to cast the spell. You need spend only 1 hour and 10 GP for each level of the copied spell.
If you lose your spellbook, you can use the same procedure to transcribe the Wizard spells that
you have prepared into a new spellbook. Filling out the remainder of the new book requires you to find new spells to do so. For this reason. many wizards keep a backup spellbook.

LEVEL 3: WIZARD SUBCLASS
You gain a Wizard subclass of your choice. The Ab· jurer, Diviner, Evoker, and !Jlusioni.st subclasses are detailed after this class's description. A subclass is
a specialization that grants you features at certain Wizard levels. For the rest of your career.you gain each of your subclass's features that are of your Wizard level or lower.
LEVEL 4: ABILITY SCORE IMPROYEMENT
You gain the Ability Score Improvement feat (see chapter 5) or another feat of your choice for ,vhich you qualify. You gain this feature again at Wizard levels 8, 12, and \6.
LEVEL 5: MEMORIZE SPELL
Whenever you finish a Short Rest, you can study your spellbook and replace one of the level t+ Wiz· ard spells you have prepared for your Spellcast.ing feature with another level l+spell from the book.
LEVEL 18: SPELL MASTERY
You have achieved such mastery over certain spells that you can cast them at will. Choose a level 1 and a level 2 spell in your spellbook that have a casting time of an action. You always have those spells pre· pared. and you can cast them at their lowest level
r		without expending a spellslot. To cast either spell at a higher level, you must expend a spe)I slot.
•












Whenever you finish a Long Rest, you can study your spellbook and replace one of those spells with an eligible spell of the same level from the book.
LEVEL 19: EPIC BOON
You gain an Epic Boon feat (see chapter 5) or an· other feat of your choice for which you qualify. Boon of Spell Recall is recommended.
LEVEL 20: SIGNATURE: SPE:LLS
Choose two level 3 spells in your spellbook as your signature spells. You always have thesespells pre• pared, and you can cast each of them once at level 3 without expending a spell slot. When you do so. you can't cast them in this wayagain until you finish a Short or Long Rest. To cast either spell at a higher level, you must expend a spell slot.
CHAPTER 3 I CHARACTER CLASSES	167
WIZARD SPELL LIST	Spell	School	Special
This section presents the Wizard spell list. The
Ice Knife	Conjuration
spells are organized by spell level and then alpha•	Identify	Divination	R,M betized, and each speU's school of magic is listed.
In the Special column, C means the spell requires
Concentration, R means it's a Ritual, andM means it requires a specific Material component.
Jump	Transmutation
Longstrider	Transmutation
CANTRIPS (LEVEL O WIZARD SPELLS)	Mage Armor	Abjuration
Spell	School	Special
Magic Missile	Evocation
Acid Splash
Evocation	Protection from Evil and	Abjuration	C,M
Blade Word Chill Touch Dancing Lights Efememolism
Abjuration	C Necromancy Illusion	C
Transmutation
Good
Ray of Sickness	Necromancy
Shield	Abjuration
Silent Image	Illusion	C
Sleep	Enchantment	C
Fire Bolt Friends Light
Mage Hand Mending Message Mind Sliver
Evocation	Tasha's Hideous Laughter Enchantment C Enchantment  C	Tenser's Floating Disk	Conjuration	R Evocation	Thunderwave	 Evocation
Conjuration	Unseen Servant	Conjuration	R
Transmutation	Witch Bolt	Evocation	C Transmutation
Enchantment	LEVEL 2 WIZARD SPELLS
Minor Illusion Poison Spray Prestidigitation Roy of Frost Shocking Grasp Thunderclap Toll the Dead
Illusion Necromancy Transmutation Evocation Evocation Evocation Necromancy
Spell	School	Special
After Self	Transmutation	C
Arcane Lock	Abjuration	M
Arcane Vigor	Abjuration
Augury	Divination	R, M
Blindness/Deafness	Transmutation
Blur	Illusion	C
True Strike	Divination

LEVEL 1 WIZARD SPELLS
Spell	School	Special
Alarm	Abjuration	R
Cloud of Daggers	Conjuration	C
Continual Flame	Evocation	M
Crown of Madness	Enchantment	C
Darkness	Evocation	C
Darkvision	Transmutation
Burning Hands	Evocation	Detect Thoughts	Divination	C
Charm Person	Enchantment	Dragon's Breath	Transmutation	C
Chromatic Orb	Evocation	M
Color Spray	Illusion
Comprehend Languages	Divination	R
Detect Magic	Divination	C, R
Disguise Self	Illusion
Expeditious Retreat	Transmutation	C
Folse Life	Necromancy
Feather Foll	Transmutation
Find Familiar	Conjuration	R,M
Fog Cloud	Conjuration	C
Crease	Conjuration
Enhance Ability	Transmutation	C
Enlarge/Reduce	Transmutation	C
Flaming Sphere	Evocation	C
Gentle Repose	Necromancy	R, M
Gust of Wind	Evocation	C
Hold Person	Enchantment	C
Invisibility	Illusion	C
Knock	Transmutation
Levitate	Transmutation	C
Locale Object	Divination	C
Magic Mouth	Illusion	R,M

r68	CHAPTER 3 I CHARACTER CLASSES

Spell	School	Special	Spell	School	Special
Magic Weapon	Transmutation		Magic Circle	Abjuration	M
Melfs Acid Arrow	Evocation		Major Image	Illusion	C
Mind Spike	Divination	C	Nondetection	Abjuration	M
Mirror Image	Illusion		Phantom Steed	Illusion	R
Misty Step	Conjuration		Protectionfrom Energy	Abjuration	C
Nystul's Magic Aura	Illusion		Remove Curse	Abjuration	
Phantasmal Force	Illusion	C	Sending	Divination	
Ray of Enfeeblement	Necromancy	C	Sleet Storm	Conjuration	C
Rope Trick	Transmutation		Slow	Transmutation	C
Scorching Ray	Evocation		Speak with Dead	Necromancy	
See Invisibility	Divination		Stinking Cloud	Conjuration	C
Shatter	Evocation		Summon Fey	Conjuration	C,M
Spider Climb	Transmutation	C	Summon Undead	Necromancy	C,M
Suggestion	Enchantment	C	Tongues	Divination	
Web	Conjuration	C	Vampiric Touch	Necromancy	C

LEVEL 3 WIZARD SPELLS			Water Breathing	Transmutation	R
Spell	School	Special	LEVEL 4 WIZARD SPELLS		
Animate Dead	Necromancy		Spell	School	Special
Bestow Curse	Necromancy	C	Arcane Eye	Divination	C
Blink	Transmutation		Banishment	Abjuration	C
Clairvoyance	Divination	C,M	Blight	Necromancy	
Counterspe/1	Abjuration		Charm Monster	Enchantment	
Dispel Magic	Abjuration		Confusion	Enchantment	C
Fear	Illusion	C	Conjure Minor Elementals	Conjuration	C
Feign Death	Necromancy	R	Control Water	Transmutation	C
Fireball	Evocation		Dimension Door	Conjuration	
Fly	Transmutation	C	Divination	Divination	R,M
Gaseous Form	Transmutation	C	Evord's Block Tentacles	Conjuration	C
Glyph of Warding	Abjuration	M	Fabricate	Transmutation	
Haste	Transmutation	C	Fire Shield	Evocation	
Hypnotic Pattern	Illusion	C	Greater Invisibility	Illusion	C
Leomund'sTiny Hut	Evoca.tion	R	Hallucinatory Terrain	Illusion	
Lightning Bolt	Evocation				

CHAPTER 3 I CHARACTER CLASSES	169

Spell
Ice Storm	School
Evocation	Special	Spell
Telekinesis	School
Transmutation	Special
C
Leomund's Secret Chest	Conjuration	M	Teleportation Circle	Conjuration	M
Locate Creature	Divination	C	Wall of Force	Evocation	C
Mordenkainen's Faithful	Conjuration		Wall of Stone	Evocation	C
Hound
Mordenkainen's Private	
Abjuration		Yolande's Regal Presence	Enchantment	C
Sanctum
Otiluke's Resilient Sphere Phantasmal Killer Polymorph
Stone Shape Stoneskin
Summon Aberration Summon Construct Summon Elemental Vitriolic Sphere Woll of Fire
LEVEL 5 WIZARD SPELLS
Spell	School	Special
Animate Objects	Transmutation	C
Bigby's Hand	Evocation	C
Circle of Power	Abjuration	C
Cfoudki/1	Conjuration	C
Cone of Cold	Evocation
Conjure Elemental	 Conjuration	C Contact Other Plane	 Divination	 R Creation	Illusion
Dominate Person	Enchantment    C
Dream	Illusion
Ceas	Enchantment
Hold Monster	Enchantment	C	LEVEL 7 WIZARD SPELLS	
Jallarzi's Storm of Radiance	Evocation	C	Spell	School	Special
Legend Lore	Divination	M	Delayed Blast Fireball	Evocation	C
Mislead	Illusion	C	Etherealness	Conjuration	
ModifyMemory	Enchantment	C	Fingerof Death	Necromancy	
Passwall	Transmutation		Forcecage	Evocation	C,M
Planar Binding	Abjuration	M	Mirage Arcane	Illusion	
Rory's Telepathic Bond	Divination	R	Mordenkainen's Magnificent	Conjuration	M
Scrying	Divination	C,M
Seeming	Illusion
Steel Wind Strike	Conjuration	M
Summon Dragon	Conjuration	C,M
Mansion
Mordenkainen's Sword	Evocation	C,M
Plane Shift	Conjuration	M
Prismatic Spray	Evocation
Synaptic Static	Enchantment	Project Image	Illusion	C,M


170	CHAPTER 3 I CHARACTER CLASSES











































'


CHAPTER 3 I CHARACTER CLASSES	r71
WIZARD SUBCLASSES
AWizard subclass is a specialization that gr'.lnts you features at certain Wizard levels, as specified in the subclass. This section presents the Abjurer. Diviner. Evoker, and Illusionist subclasses.
ABJ.,YRER				
Shield Companions and Banish Foes
Your study of magic is focused on spells that block, banish, or protect-ending harmful effects, ban-ishing evil influences, and protecting the weak.
Abjurers are sought when baleful spirits require exorcism. when locations must be guarded against magical spying, and when portals to other planes of existence must be closed. Adventuring parties value Abjurers for the protection they provide against a variety of hostile magic and other attacks.
LEVEL 3: ABJURATION SAVANT
Choose two Wizard spells from the Abjuration school, each of which must be no higher than level 2, and add them to your spellbook for free.
In addition, whenever you gain access to a new level of spell slots in this class, you can add one Wizard spell from the Abjuration school to your spellbook for free. The chosen spell must beof a level for which you have spell slots.
LEVEL 3:ARCANE WARD
You can weave magic around yourself for protec-tion. When you cast an Abjuration spell with a spell slot, you can simultaneously use a strand of the spell's magic to create a magical ward on yourself that lasts until you finish a Long Rest. The ,vard has a Hit Point maximum equal to twice your Wizard level plus your Intelligence modifier. Whenever you take damage, the ward takes the damage instead, and if you have any Resistances or Vulnerabilities, apply them before reducing the ward's Hit Points.
If the damage reduces the ward to O Hit Points, you take any remaining damage. While the ward has
0 Hit Points, it can't absorb damage, but its magic remains.
Whenever you cast an Abjuration spell with a spellslot, the ward regains a number of Hit Points equal to twice the level of the spell slot. Alterna-tively, as a Bonus Action, you can expend a spell slot, and the ward regains a number of Hit Points equal to twice the level of the spell slot expended.
Once you create the ward. you can't create it again until you finish a Long Rest.
LEVEL 6:PROJECTED WARD
When a creature that you can see within 30 feet of yourself takes damage, you can take a Reaction to cause your Arcane Ward to absorb that damage. If this damage reduces the ward to O Hit Points, the
warded creature takes any remaining damage. If that creature has any Resistances or Vulnerabilities. apply them before reducing the ward's Hit Points.
LEVEL 10: SPELL BREAKER
You always have the Counterspe/1 and Dispel Magic spells prepared. In addition, you can cast Dispel Magic as a Bonus Action, and you can add your Pro-ficiency Bonus to its ability check.
When you cast either spell with a spell slot, that slot isn't expended if the spell fails to stop a spell.
LEVEL 14: SPELL RESISTANCE
You have Advantage on saving throws against spells. and you have Resistance to the damage of spells.
DIVINER		
Learn the Secrets of the Multiverse
The counsel of a Diviner is sought by those who want a clearer understanding of the past, present. and future. As a Diviner, you strive to part the veils of space, time, and consciousness. You work to mas-ter spells of discernment, remote viewing, supernat-ural knowledge. and foresight.
LEVEL 3:D1V!NATTON SAVANT
Choose two Wizard spells from the Divination school, each of which must be no higher than level 2, and add them to your spellbook for free.
In addition, whenever you gain access to a new level of spell slots in this class, you can add one Wizard spell from the Divination school to your spellbook for free. The chosen spell must be of a level for which you havespell slots.
LEVEL 3: PORTENT
Glimpses of the future begin to press on your a,vareness. Whenever you finish a Long Rest, roll two d20s and record the numbers rolled. You can replace any D20 Test made by you or a creature that you can see with one of these foretelling rolls. You must choose to do so before the roll, and you can replace a roll in this way only once per turn.
Each foretelling roll can be used only once. When you finish a Long Rest, you lose any unused foretell-ing rolls.
LEVEL 6:EXPERT DIVINATION
Casting Divination spells comes so easily to you that it expends only a fraction of your spellcasting ef-forts. When you cast a Divination spell usinga level 2+spell slot, you regain one expended spell slot. The slot you regain must be of a level lower than the slot you expended and can't be higher than level S.

>
LEVEL 10: TuE  TuLRD EYE
You can increase your powers of perception. As a Bonus Action, choose one of the following benefits, which lasts until you start a Short or Long Rest.
You can't use this feature again until you finish a Short or Long Rest.
Darkvision. You gain Darkvision with a range of 120 feet.
Greater Comprehension. You can read any language.
SeeInvisibility. You can cast See /11visibility without
expending a spell slot.
LEVEL 14: GREATER PORTENT
The visions in your dreams intensify and paint a more accurate picture in your mind of what is to come. Roll three d20s for your Portent feature rather than two.



























































r73

EVOKER		
Create E?'Plosive Eleme11tal Effects
Your studies focus on magic that creates powerful elemental effects such as bitter cold,searing Aame, rolling thunder, crackling lightning, and burning acid.Some Evokers find employment in military forces, serving as artillery to blast armies from afar. Others use their po,..,er to protect others, while some seek their own gain.
LEVEL 3: EVOCATION SAVANT
Choose two Wizard spells from the Evocation school, each of which must be no higher than level 2, and add them to your spellbook for free.
In addition, whenever you gain access to a new level of spell slots in this class. you can add one Wizard spell from the Evocation school to your spellbook for free.The chosen spell must be of a level for which you have spell slots.
LEVEL 3: POTENT CANTRIP
Your damaging cantrips affect even creatures that avoid the brunt of the effect. When you cast a can• trip at a creature and you miss with the attack roll or the target succeeds on a saving throw against the cantrip, the target takes half the cantrip's damage (if any) but suffers no additional effect from the cantrip.
LEVEL 6: SCULPT SPELLS
You can create pockets of relative safety within the effects of your evocations. When you cast an
Evocation spell that affects other creatures that you can see, you can choose a number of them equal to I plus the spell's level. The chosen creatures automat· ically succeed on their saving th rows agafost the spell, and they take no damage if they would nor· mally take half damage on a successful save.
LEVEL 10: EMPOWERED EVOCATION
Whenever you cast a Wizard spell from the Evoca-tion school, you can add your JntelUgence modifier to one damage roll of that spell.
LEVEL 14: OVERCHANNEL
You can increase the power of your spells. When you cast a Wizard spell with a spell slot of levels1-5 that deals damage, you can deal maximum damage with that spell on the turn you cast it.
The first time you do so, you suffer no adverse ef• feet. If you use this feature again before you finish a Long Rest, you take 2dl2 Necrotic damage for each level of the spell slot immediately after you cast it. This damage ignores Resistance and Immunity.
Each time you use this feature again before finish-ing a Long Rest, the Necrotic damage per spell level increases by Id.I2.



ILLUSIONIST
Weave Subtle Spells of Deception
You specialize in magic that dazzles the senses and tricks the mind, and the illusions you craA: make the impossible seem real.
LEVEL 3: ILLUSION SAVANT
Choose two Wizard spells from the Illusion school, each of which must be no higher than level 2, and add them to your spellbook for free.
In addition, whenever you gain access to a new level of spell slots in thfa class, you can add one Wizard spell from the Illusion school to your spell-book for free. The chosen spell must be of a level for which you have spell slots.
LEVEL 3: IMPROVED 1LLUSI.ONS
You can cast Illusion spells without providing Ver-bal components, and if an Illusion spell you cast has a range ofl0+feet, the range increases by 60 feet.
You a.lso know the Minor Illusion cantrip. If you al-
ready know it. you learn a different Wizard cantrip of your choice. The cantrip doesn't count against your number of cantrips known. You can create both a sound and an image with a single casting of Minor Illusion, and you can cast it as a Bonus Action.
LEVEL 6: PHANTASMAL CREATURES
You always have the Summon Beast and Summon Fey spells prepared. Whenever you cast either spell, you can change its school to Illusion, which causes the summoned creature to appear spectral. You can cast the Illusion version of each spell without expending a spell slot, but casting it ,_,ithout a slot halves the creature's Hit Points. Once you cast either spell without a spell slot, you must finish a Long Rest be-fore you can cast the spell in that way again.
LEVEL 10: ILLUSORY SELF
When a creature hits you with an attack roll, you can take a Reaction to interpose an illusory dupli-cate of yourself between the attacker and yourself. The attack automatically misses you, then the illu-sion dissipates.
Onceyou use th is feature, you can't use it again until you finish a Short or Long Rest. You can also restore your use of it by expending a level 2• spell slot (no action required).
LEVEL 14: lLLUSORY REALITY
You have learned to weave shadow magic into your illusions to give them a semi-reality. When you cast an Illusion spell with a spell slot, you can choose one inanimate, nonmagical object that is part of the illusion and make that object real. You can do this on your turn as a Bonus Action while the spell is on-
?	going. The object remains real for I minute, during which it can't deal damage or give any conditions. For example, you can create an illusion of a bridge over a chasm and then make it real and cross it.

CHAPTER 4
CHARACTER  ORIGINS



HIS CHAPTER DESCRIBES THE TWO
components of an adventurer's origin: back-ground and species. Together, these elements
suggest your character's early experience and family origin before taking up the adventuring life and learning the capabilities of a class (described in chapter 3).
ORIGIN  COMPONENTS
Each part of your character's origin reflects facets of your character, their life, and the circumstances that started them on the path to adventure.
If you choose a background or a species from an older book,see the sidebar "Backgrounds and Spe-cies from Older Books" in chapter 2 for how to use them with the options here.
CHARACTER BACKGROUNDS
Your character's background is a collection of char-acteristics that represent the place and occupation that were most formative before your character em• barked on a life of adventure.
Each background includes a brief narrative of what your character's past might have been like. Al· ter the details of this narrative however you like.
PARTS OF A BACKGROUND
A background includes the following parts.
Ability Scores. A background lists three of your character's ability scores. Increase one by 2 and another one by I, or increase all three by I. None of these increases can raise a score above 20.
Feat. A background gives your character a speci· fied Origin feat (described in chapter 5).
Skill Proficiencies. A background gives your char-acter proficiency in twospecified skills.
Tool Proficiency. Each background gives a charac-
ter proficiency with one tool-either a specific tool or one chosen from the Artisan's Tools category. Tools are detailed in chapter 6.
Equipment. Each background offers a choice be· tween a package of equipment and 50 GP.
The peoples of the D&D multiverse hail from dif-ferent worlds and include many kinds of sapient life forms. A player character's species is the set of game traits that an adventurer gains from being one of those life forms.
Some species can trace their origin to a single world, plane of existence, or god, while other spe· cies firstappeared in multiple realms at once. What-ever a species' genesis, its members havespread across the multiverse and contribute to many differ• ent cultures.
Members of most species live for about 80 years, with exceptions noted in the text about the species in this chapter. Regardless of life span, members
of all species reach physical maturity at about the same age. Your character can be any age that isn't beyond their species' normal life span.
PARTS OF A SPECIES
Aspecies includes the following parts.
Creature 'fype. A character's species determines the character's creature type, which is described in the rules glossary. Every species in this chapter is Humanoid; playable non-Humanoid species appear in other D&D books.
Size. Your character's species determines the character's size. Individuals within a species cover a wide range of heights, and some species include such diversity of size that you can choose whether your character is Small or Medium.
Speed. Your character's species determines the character's Speed.
Special Traits. Each species gives a character special traits-unique characteristics based on the species' physiology or magical nature. When you choose a species, your character gets all the special traits listed for it. Some traits involve making a choice from a handful of options.
BACKGROUND DESCRIPTIONS
Sixteen backgrounds are presented in thissection in alphabetical order:
CHARACTER SPECIES
When you choose your character's species, you determine whether your character is a human or a member of a fantastical species, such as dragonborn or gnome.
Acolyte Artisan Charlatan Criminal Entertainer Farmer
Guard	Sailor
Guide	Scribe
Hermit	Soldier
Merchant	Wayfarer Noble
Sage
CllAPTER 4 I CHARACTER ORIGINS	177



















Ability Scores: Intelligence, Wisdom, Charisma Feat: Magic Initiate (Cleric) (see chapter 5) Skill Proficiencies: Insight and Religion
Tool Proficiency: Calligrapher's Supplies Equipment: Choose A or 8: (A) Calligrapher'sSup-
plies, Book (prayers), Holy Symbol, Parchment (10 sheets), Robe, 8 GP; or (B) SO GP



















You devoted yourself to service in a temple, either nestled in a town or secluded in a sacred grove.
There you performed rites in honor of a god or pantheon. You served under a priest and studied re· ligion. Thanks to your priest's instruction and your own devotion, you also learned how to channel a modicum of divine power in service to your place of worship and the people who prayed there.






















Ability Scores: Strength, Dexterity, Intelligence Feat: Crafter (see chapter 5)
Skill Proficiencies: Investigation and Persuasion
Tool Proficiency: Choose one kind of Artisan's Tools (see chapter 6)
Equipment: Choose A or 8: (A) Artisan's Tools (same as above), 2 Pouches, Traveler's Clothes, 32 GP; or
(8) 50 GP
You began mopping floors and scrubbing count• ers in an artisan's workshop for a fe,v coppers per day as soon as you were strongenough to carrya bucket. When you were old enough to apprentice, you learned to create basic craA:s of your own, as
well as how to sweet-talk the occasional demanding customer. Your trade has alsogiven you a keen eye for detail.





178	CHAPTER 4 I CHARACTER ORIGINS


















Ability Scores: Dexterity, Constitution, Charisma Feat: Skilled (see chapter 5)
Skill Proficiencies: Deception and Sleight of Hand
Tool Proficiency: Forgery Kit
Equipment: Choose A or B: (A) Forgery Kit, Costume, Fine Clothes, 15 GP; or (B) 50 GP

























Ability Scores: Dexterity, Constitution, Intelligence Feat: Alert (seechapter 5)
Skill Proficiencies: Sleight of Hand and Stealth Tool Proficiency: Thieves' Tools
Equipment: Choose A or B: (A) 2 Daggers, Thieves' Tools, Crowbar, 2 Pouches, Traveler's Clothes, 16 GP; or (B) 50 GP
Once you were old enough to order an ale, you soon had a favorite stool in every tavern within ten miles of where you were born. As you traveled the circuit from public house to watering hole, you learned to prey on unfortunates who were in the market for
a comforting lie or two-perhaps a sham potion or forged ancestry records.
























You eked out a livingin dark alleyways, cutting purses or bu.rgling shops. Perhaps you were part of a small gang of like-minded wrongdoers who looked out for each other. Or maybe you were a lone wolf, fending for yourself against the local thieves' guild and more fearsome lawbreakers.







CHAPTER 4 I CHARACTER ORJC!NS	179



















Ability Scores: Strength, Dexterity, Charisma Feat: Musician (see chapter 5)
Skill Proficiencies: Acrobatics and Performance
Tool Proficiency: Choose one kind of Musical Instrument
(see chapter 6)
Equipment: Choose A or 8: (A) Musical Instrument (same as above), 2 Costumes, Mirror, Perfume, Traveler's Clothes, 11 GP; or (B) SO GP



















You spent much of your youth following roving fairs and carnivals, performing odd jobs for musi-cians and acrobats in exchange for lessons. You may have learned how to walk a tightrope, how to play a lute in a distinct style, or how to recite poetry with impeccable diction. To this day, you thrive on ap-plause and long for the stage.






















Ability Scores: Strength, Constitution, Wisdom Feat: Tough (see chapter 5)
Skill Proficiencies: Animal Handling and Nature Tool Proficiency: Carpenter's Tools
Equipment: Choose A or B: (A) Sickle, Carpenter's Tools, Healer's Kit, Iron Pot, Shovel, Traveler's Clothes, 30 GP; or (B) 50 GP
You grew up close to the land. Years tendingani-mals and cultivating the earth rewarded you with patience and good health. You have a keen apprecia· tion for nature's bounty alongside a healthy respect for nature's wrath.







t80	CHAPTER4 I CHARACTER ORIGINS


















Ability Scores: Strength, Intelligence, Wisdom Feat: Alert (see chapter 5)
Skill Proficiencies: Athletics and Perception
Tool Proficiency: Choose one kind of Coming Set (see chapter 6)
Equipment: Choose A or B: (A) Spear, Light Crossbow, 20 Bolts, Gaming Set (same as above), Hooded Lan-tern, Manacles, Quiver, Traveler's Clothes, 12 GP; or
(8) 50 GP
Your feet ache when you remember the countless hours you spent at your post in the tower. You were trained to keep one eye looking outside the wall, watching for marauders sweeping from the nearby forest, and your other eyelooking inside the wall, searching for cutpurses and troublemakers.





















Ability Scores: Dexterity, Constitution, Wisdom Feat: Magic Initiate (Druid) (see chapter 5) Skill Proficiencies: Stealth and Survival
Tool Proficiency: Cartographer's Tools
Equipment: Choose A or B: (A) Shortbow, 20 Arrows, Cartographer's Tools, Bedroll, Quiver, Tent, Travel-er's Clothes, 3 GP; or (8) SO GP

You came of age outdoors, far from settled lands. Your home was anywhere you chose to spread your bedroll. There are wonders in the wilderness-strange monsters. pristine forests and streams, overgrown ruins of great halls once trod bygiants-and you learned to fend for yourself as you explored them. from time to time, you guided Friendly nature priests who instructed you in the fundamentals of channeling the magic of the wild.




CHA PT.ER 4 I CHARACTER ORIGINS	181



















Ability Scores: Constitution, Wisdom, Charisma Feat: Healer (see chapter S)
Skill Proficiencies: Medicine and Religion Tool Proficiency: Herbalism Kit
Equipment: Choose A or 8: (A) Quarterstaff, Herbalism Kit, Bedroll, Book (philosophy), Lamp, Oil (3 flasks), Traveler's Clothes, 16 GP; or (8) SO GP



















You spent your early years secluded in a hut or monastery located well beyond the outskirts of the nearest settlement. In those days, your only com-panions were the creatures of the forest and those who would occasionally visit to bring news of the outside world and supplies. The solitude allowed you to spend many hours pondering the mysteries of creation.























Ability Scores: Constitution, Intelligence, Charisma Feat: Lucky (see chapter SJ
Skill Proficiencies: Animal Handling and Persuasion Tool Proficiency: Navigator's Tools
Equipment: Choose A or 8: (A) Navigator's Tools, 2 Pouches, Traveler's Clothes, 22 GP; or (B) SO GP
You were apprenticed to a trader, caravan master, or shopkeeper, learning the fundamentals of com-merce. You traveled broadly, and you earned a liv-ing by buying and selling the raw materials artisans need to practice their craft or finished works from such craA:ers. You might have transported goods from one place to another (by ship, wagon, or cara-van) or bought them from traveling traders and sold them in your ownshop.





t82	CHAPTER 4 I CHARACTER ORIGINS


















Ability Scores: Strength, Intelligence, Charisma
Feat: Skilled (see chapter 5)
Skill Proficiencies: History and Persuasion
Tool Proficiency: Choose one kind of Gaming Set (see chapter 6)
Equipment: Choose A or B: (A) Gaming Set (same as above), Fine Clothes, Perfume, 29 GP; or (8) 50 GP























Ability Scores: Constitution, Intelligence, Wisdom Feat: Magic Initiate (Wizard) (see chapter 5)
Skill Proficiencies: Arcana and History Tool Proficiency: Calligrapher'sSupplies
Equipment: Choose A or B: (A) Quarterstaff, Callig-rapher's Supplies, Book (history), Parchment (8 sheets), Robe, 8 GP; or (8) 50 GP

•
z
You were raised in a castle,surrounded by wealth, power, and privilege. Your family of minor aristo· crats ensured that you received a first-class edu· cation, some of which you appreciated and some of which you resented. Your time in the castle,
especially the many hours you spent observing your family at court, also taught you a great deal about leadership.























You spent your formative years traveling between manors and monasteries, performing various odd jobs and services in exchange for access to their libraries. You whiled away many a longevening studying books and scrolls, learning the lore of the multiverse-even the rudiments of magic-and your mind yearns for more.
CHAPTER 4 I CHARACTER ORIGINS	183




















Ability Scores: Strength, Dexterity, Wisdom Feat: Tavern Brawler (seechapter SJ
Skill Proficiencies: Acrobatics and Perception Tool Proficiency: Navigator's Tools
Equipment: Choose A or 8: (A) Dagger, Navigator's
Tools, Rope, Traveler's Clothes, 20 GP; or (BJ SO GP

























Ability Scores: Dexterity, Intelligence, Wisdom Feat: Skilled (see chapter S)
Skill Proficiencies: Investigation and Perception Tool Proficiency: Calligrapher's Supplies
Equipment: Choose A or 8: (A) Calligrapher's Supplies,
Fine Clothes, Lamp, Oil (3 Rasks), Parchment (12 sheets), 23GP: or (B) SO GP





r84	CHAPTER 4 I CHARACTER ORIGINS



















You lived as a seafarer, wind at your back and decks swaying beneath your feet. You've perched on bar-stools in more ports of call than you can remember, faced mightystorms, and swapped stories with folk who live beneath the waves.

•



















Youspent formative years in a scriptorium, a mon-astery dedicated to the preservation of knowledge, or a government agency, where you learned to write with a clear hand and produce finely written texts. Perhaps you scribed government documents or cop-ied tomes of literature. You might have someskill as a writer of poetry, narrative, or scholarly research. Above all, you have a careful attention to detail, helpingyou avoid introducing mistakes to the docu-ments you copy and create.


















Ability Scores: Strength, Dexterity, Constitution Feat: Savage Attacker (see chapter 5)
Skill Proficiencies: Athletics and Intimidation
Tool Proficiency: Choose one kind of Coming Sel (see chapter 6)
Equipment: Choose A or 8: (A) Spear, Shortbow, 20 Arrows, Gaming Set (same as above), Healer's Kit, Quiver, Traveler's Clothes, 14 GP; or (BJ 50 GP
You began training for war as soon as you reached adu Ithood and carry precious few memories of life before you took up arms. Battle is in your blood. Sometimes you catch yourself reflexively perform• ing the bas.ic fighting exercises you learned first.
Eventually, you put that training to use on the bat· tlefield, protecting the realm by waging war.






















Ability Scores: Dexterity, Wisdom, Charisma Feat: Lucky (see chapter 5)
Skill Proficiencies: Insight and Stealth Tool Profic.iency: Thieves' Tools
Equipment: Choose A or 8: (A) 2 Daggers, Thieves' Tools, Gaming Set (any), Bedroll, 2 Pouches, Travel-er's Clothes, 16 GP; or (8) 50 GP

You grew up on the streets surrounded bysimilarly ill-fated castoffs, a few of them friends and a few of them rivals. You slept where you could and did odd jobs for food. At times, when the hunger became unbearable, you resorted to theft Still, you never lost your pride and never abandoned hope. Fate is not yet finished with you.






CHAPTER4  I CHARACTER ORIGINS	185
SPECIES  DESCRIPTIONS
Ten species are presented in this section in alpha-betical order: Aasimar, Dragonborn, Dwarf, Elf, Gnome, Goliath, HalHing, Human, Ore, and TieAing.
AASIMAR
Aasimar (pronounced AH-sih-mar) are mortals who carrya spark of the Upper Planes within their souls. Whether descended from an angelic being or infused with celestial power. they can fan that spark to bring light, healing, and heavenly fury.
Aasimar can a,rise amongany population of mortals. They resemble their parents, but they live for up to 160 years and have features that hint at their celestial heritage, such as metallic freckles, luminous eyes, a halo, or the skin color of an angel (silver. opalescent green, or coppery red). These features start subtle and become obvious when the aasimar learns to reveal their full celestial nature.

AASIMAR 'TRAITS
Creature Type: Humanoid
Size: Medium (about 4-7 feet tall) or Small (about 2-4 feet tall), chosen when you select this species
Speed: 30 feet
As an Aasimar, you have these special traits.
Celestial Resistance. You have Resistance to Ne-crotic damage and Radiant damage.
Darkvision. You have Darkvision with a range of 60 feet.
Healing Hands. As a Magic action, you touch a creature and roll a number of d4s equal to your Proficiency Bonus. The creature regains a number of Hit Points equal to the total rolled. Once you use this trait, you can't use it again until you finish a Long Rest.
Light Bearer. You know the Light cantrip. Cha-risma is your spellcasting ability for it.
Celestial Revelation. When you reach character level 3, you can transform as a Bonus Action using one of the options below (choose the option each time you transform). The transformation lasts for 1 minute or until you end it (no action required).
Once you transform, you can't doso again until you finish a Long Rest.
Once on each of your turns before the transfor-mation ends, you can deal extra damage to one tar-get when you deal damage to it with an attack or a spell. The extra damage equals your Proficiency Bo-nus, and the extra damage's type is either Necrotic for Necrotic Shroud or Radiant for Heavenly Wings and Inner Radiance.
Here are the transformation options:
Heavenly Wings. Two spectral wings sprout from your back temporarily. Until the transformation ends, you have a Fly Speed equal to your Speed.
Inner Radiance. Searing light temporarily radiates from your eyes and mouth. For the duration, you shed Bright Light in a 10-foot radius and Dim Light for an additional 10 feet, and at the end of each of your turns, each creature within 10 feet of you takes Radiant damage equal to your Profi-ciency Bonus.
Necrotic Shroud. Your eyes briefly become pools of darkness, and flightless wings sprout from your back temporarily. Creatures other than your allies within 10 feet of you must succeed on a Charisma saving throw (DC 8 plus your Charisma modifier and Proficiency Bonus) or have the Frightened condition until the end of your next turn.


















186	CHAPTER 4 I CHARACTER ORIGINS























DRAGONBORN
The ancestors of dragonborn hatched from the eggs of chromatic and metallic dragons. Onestory holds that these eggs were blessed by the dragon gods Bahamut and Tiamat, who wanted to populate the multiverse with people created in their image. Another story claims that dragons created the first dragonborn without the gods' blessings. Whatever their origin, dragonborn have made homes for themselves on the Material Plane.
Dragonborn look like wingless, bipedal dragons-scaly, bright-eyed. and thick-boned with horns on their heads-and their coloration and other features are reminiscent of their draconic ancestors.

DRAGON BORN TRAITS
Creature Type: Humanoid
Size: Medium (about 5-7 feet tall)
Speed: 30 feet
As a Dragonborn, you have these special traits.
Draconic Ancestry. Your lineage stems from a dragon progenitor. Choose the kind of dragon from the Draconic Ancestors table. Your choice affects your Breath Weapon and Damage Resistance traits as well as your appearance.

DRACONIC ANCESTORS
Dragon Damage Type	Dragon Damage Type






Breath Weapon. When you take the Attack action on your turn, you can replace one of your attacks with an exhalation of magical energy in either a
IS-foot Cone or a 30-foot Line that is 5 feet wide (choose the shape each time). Each creature in that a.rea must make a Dexterity saving throw (DC 8 plus your Constitution modifier and Proficiency Bo-nus). On a failed save, a creature takes ldl0 damage of the type determined by your Draconic Ancestry trait. On a successfulsave, a creature takes half as much damage. This damage increases by tdt0 when
you reach character levels5 (2dl0).11 (3d10), and
17 (4dl0).
You can use this Breath Weapon a number of times equal to your Proficiency Bonus. and you re-gain all expended uses when you finish a Long Rest.
Damage Resistance. You have Resistance to the damage type determined by your Dracon.ic Ances-try trait.
Darkvision. You have Darkvision with a range of
60 feet.
Draconic Flight. When you reach character level 5, you can channel draconic magic to give yourself temporary flight. As a Bonus Action, you sprout
Black	Acid
Blue	Lightning
Brass	 Fire Bronze	Lightning
Gold	Fire
Green	Poison
Red	Fire
Silver	Cold
spectral wings on your back that last for 10 minutes
or until you retract the wings (no action required) or have the Incapacitated condition. During that time, you have a Fly Speed equal to your Speed.
Your wings appear to be made of the same energy as your Breath Weapon. Once you use this trait. you
Copper  Acid	White	Cold
can't use it again until you finish a Long Rest.
CHAPTER-? I CHARACTER ORIGINS	187






























DWARF
Dwarves were raised from the earth in the elder days by a deity of the forge. Called by various names on different worlds-Moradin, Reorx. and others-that god gave dwarves an affinity for stone and metal and for living underground. The god also made them resilient like the mountains. with a life span of about 350 years.
Squat and often bearded. the original dwarves
carved cities and strongholds into mountainsides and under the earth. Their oldest legends tell of conflicts with the monsters of mountaintops and the Underdark, whether those monsters were tow-ering giants or subterranean horrors. Inspired by
those tales. dwarves of any culture often sing of val-orous deeds-especially of the littleovercoming the mighty.
On some worlds in the multiverse, the first settle-
ments of dwarves were built in hills or mountains, and the families who trace their ancestry to those settlements call themselves hill dwarves or moun• tain dwarves, respectively. The Greyhawk and Dragonlance settings have such communities.



































DWARF TRAITS
Creature Type: Humanoid
Size: Medium (about 4-5 feet tall) Speed: 30 feet
As a Dwarf. you have these special traits.
Darkvision. You have Darkvision with a range of
120 feet.
Dwarven Resilience. You have Resistance to Poison damage. You also have Advantage on saving throws you make to avoid or end the Poisoned condition.
Dwarven Toughness. Your Hit Point maximum increases by I, and il increases by I again whenever you gain a level.
Stonecunning. As a Bonus Action, you gain Trem-
orsense ,vith a range of 60 feet for JO minutes. You must be on a stone surface or touching a stone surface to use thisTremorsense. The stone can be natural or worked.
You can use this Bonus Action a number of times
equal to your Proficiency Bonus, and you regain all expended uses when you finish a Long Rest.







188	CHAPTER 4 I CHARACTER OlUCINS



ELF
Created by the god Corellon, the first elves could change their forms at will. They lost this ability when Corellon cursed them for plotting with the deity Lolth, who tried and failed to usurp Corellon's dominion. When Lolth was cast into the Abyss. most elves renounced her and earned Corellon's for-giveness, but that which Corellon had ta ken from them was lost forever.
No longer able to shape-shift at will, the elves retreated to the Feywild, where their sorrow was deepened by that plane's influence. Over time, cu-riosity led many of them to explore other planes of existence. including wodds in the Material Plane.
Elves have pointed ears and lack facial and body hair.They live for around 750 years, and they don't sleep but instead enter a trance when they need to rest. In that state, they remain aware of their sur-roundings while immersing themselves in memories and meditations.
An environment subtly transforms elves after they inhabit it for a millennium or more, and it grants them certain kinds of magic. Drow, high elves, and wood elves are examples of elves who have been transformed thus.

•
DROW
Drow typically dwell in the Underdark and have been shaped by it. Some drow individuals and soci-eties avoid the Underdark altogether yet carry its magic. In the Eberron setting, for example, drow dwell in rainforests and cyclopean ruins on the con-tinent of Xen'drik.
HIGH ELVES
High elves have been infused with the magic of crossings between the FeY'vild and the Material Plane. On some worlds, high elves refer to them-selves by other names. For example, they call them-selves sun or moon elves in the Forgotten Realms setting, Silvanesti and QuaHnesti in the Dragon-lance setting, and Aereni in the Eberron setting.
WOOD ELVES
Wood elves carry the magic of primeval forests within themselves. They are known by many other names, including wild elves, green elves, and forest elves. Grugach are reclusive wood elves of the Grey-hawk setting. while the Kagonesti and the Tairnadal are wood elves of the Dragon lance and Eberron set-tings, respectively.
CHAPTER 4 I CHARACTER ORIGINS	189




































ELF TRAITS
Creature Type: Humanoid
Size: Medium (about 5-6 feet tall) Speed: 30 feet
As an Elf, you have these special traits.
Darkvision. You have Darkvision with a range of
60 feet.
Elven Lineage. You are part of a lineage that grants you supernatural abilities. Choose a lineage from the Elven Lineages table. You gain the level1 benefit of that lineage.
When you reach character levels 3 and 5, you learn a higher-level spell, as shown on the table, You always have thatspell prepared. You can cast it

ELVEN LINEAGES

































once ,vithout a spell slot, and you regain the ability to cast it in that way when you finish a Long Rest. You can also cast the spell using any spell slots you have of the appropriate level.
Intelligence, Wisdom, or Charisma is your spell-castingability for the spells you cast with this trait (choose the ability when you select the lineage).
Fey Ancestry. You have Advantage on saving throws you make to avoid or end the Charmed condition.
Keen Senses. You have proficiency in the Insight, Perception, or Survival skill.
Trance. You don't need to sleep, and magic can't putyou to sleep. You can finish a Long Rest in 4 hours if youspend those hours in a trancelike medi-tation, during which you retain consciousness.
Lineage Drow

High Elf


Wood Elf
Level 1
The range of your Darkvision increases to 120 feet. You also know the Dancing Lights cantrip.
You know the Prestidigitation cantrip. Whenever you finish a Long Rest, you can replace that cantrip with a different cantrip from the Wizard spell list.
Your Speed increases to 35 feet. You also know the
Druidcraft cantrip.
Level 3	Level 5
Faerie Fire	Darkness

Detect Magic	Misty Step
.•
Longstrider	Pass without Trace	i
?


r90	CHAPTER+ J CHARACTER OR!OINS



GNOME
Gnomes are magical folk created by gods of inven· tion, illusions, and life underground. The earliest gnomes were seldom seen by other folk due to the gnomes' secretive nature and their propensity for livingin forests and burrows. What they lacked
in size, they made up for in cleverness. Theycon• founded predators with traps and labyrinthine tunnels. Theyalso learned magic from gods like Gari Glittergold, Baervan Wildwanderer, and Bar· avar Cloakshadow, who visited them in disguise. That magic eventually created the lineages of forest gnomes and rock gnomes.
Gnomes are petite folk with big eyes and pointed ears, who live around 425 years. Many gnomes like the feeling of a roof over their head, even if that "roof'' is nothing more than a hat.

GNOME TRAITS
Creature Type: Humanoid
Size:Small (about 3-4 feet tall)
Speed: 30 feet
As a Gnome, you have these special traits.
Darkvision. You have Darkvision with a range of
60 feet.
Gnomish Cunning. You have Advantage on lntelli· gence, Wisdom, and Charisma saving throws.
Gnomish Lineage. You are part of a lineage that grants you supernatural abilities. Choose one of the following options; whichever one you choose,
Intelligence, Wisdom, or Charisma is your spell· castingability for the spells you cast with this trait (choose the ability when you select the lineage):
Forest Gnome. You know the Minor Illusion cantrip. You also always have the Speak with Animals spell prepared. You can cast it without a spell slot a number of times equal to your Proficiency Bonus, and you regain all expended uses when you finish a Long Rest. You can also use any spell slots you have to cast the spell.
Rock Gnome. You know the Mending and Presti· digitation cantrips. In addition, you can spend 10 minutes casting Prestidigitation to create a Tiny clockwork device (ACS, I HP), such as a toy, fire starter, or music box. When you create the device, you determine its function by choosing one effect from Prestidigitation; the device produces that effect whenever you or another creature takes
a Bonus Action to activate it with a touch. If the chosen effect has options within it, you choose one of those options for the device when you create it. For example, if you choose the spell's ignite-extinguisheffect, you determine whether the device ignites or extinguishes fire; the device doesn't do both. You can have three such devices in existence at a time, and each falls apart 8 hours after its creation or when you dismantle it with a touch as a Utilize action.









CHAPTER·• I CHARACTER ORIGINS	191























GOLIATH
Towering over most folk, goliaths are distant de-scendants of giants. Each goliath bears the favors of the first giants-favors that manifest in various supernatural boons, including the ability to quickly grow and temporarily approach the height of goli-aths' gigantic kin.
Goliaths have physical characteristics that are reminiscent of the giants in their family lines. For example, some goliaths look like stone giants, while others resemble firegiants. Whatever giants they count as kin, goliaths have forged their own path in the multiverse-unencumbered by the internecine conflicts that have ravaged giantkind for ages-and seek heights above those reached by their ancestors.

GOLIATH TRAITS
Creature Type: Humanoid
Size: Medium (about 7-8 feet tall)
Speed: 3S feet
As a Goliath, you have these special traits.
Giant Ancestry. You are descended from Giants. Choose one of the following benefits-a supernat-ural boon from your ancestry; you can use the chosen benefit a number of times equal to your Proficiency Bonus, and you regain all expended uses when you finish a Long Rest:
Cloud'sJaunt (Cloud Giant). As a Bonus Action, you magically teleport up to 30 feet to an unoccu-pied space you cansee.
























Fire's Buro (Fire Giant). When you hit a target with an attack roll and deal damage to it, you can also deal ldl0 Fire damage to that target.
Frost's Chill (Frost Giant). When you hit a target with an attack roll and deal damage to it, you can also deal ld6 Cold damage to that target and reduce its Speed by 10 feet until the start of your next turn.
Hill's Tumble (Hill Giant). When you hit a Large or smaller creature with an attack roll and deal damage to it. you can give that target the Prone condition.
Stone's En.durance (Stone Giant). When you take damage, you can take a Reaction to roll ld12. Add your Constitution modifier to the number rolled and reduce the damage by that total.
Storm's Thunder (Storm Giant). When you take damage from a creature within 60 feet of you, you can take a Reaction to deal ld8 Thunder dam-age to that creature.
Large Form. Starting at character level 5, you can change your size to Large as a Bonus Action if you're in a bigenough space. This transformation lasts for 10 minutes or until you end it (no action required). For that duration, you have Advantage
on Strength checks, and your Speed increases by 10 feet. Once you use this trait, you can't use it again until you finish a Long Rest.
Powerful Build. You have Advantage on any sav-ing throw you make to end the Grappled condition. You also count as one size larger when determining your carrying capacity.



CHAPTER 4 I CHARACTER ORIGINS


HALFLING
Cherished and guided by gods who value life, home, and hearth, halflings gravitate toward bucolic ha• vens where family and community help shape their lives. That said, many haJflings possess a brave and adventurous spirit that leads them on journeys of discovery. affording them the chance to explore a bigger world and make new friends along the way. Their size-similar to that of a human child-helps them pass through crowds unnoticed and slip through tight spaces.
Anyone who has spent time around halflings. par· ticularly halning adventurers, has likely witnessed the storied "luck of the halflings" in action. When a halfling is in mortal danger, an unseen forceseems to intervene on the halfling's behalf. Many halflings believe in the power of luck, and they attribute their unusual gift to one or more of their benevolent gods, including Yondalla, Brandobaris, and Charma· laine. The same gift might contribute to their robust life spans (about 150 years).
Halfling communities come in all varieties. For ev· ery sequestered shire tucked away in an unspoiled part of the world, there's a crimesyndicate like the Boromar Clan in the Eberron setting or a territorial mob ofhalAings Like those in the Dark Sun setting.




Halflings ,vho prefer to live underground are sometimes called strongheart halflings or stouts. Nomadic halflings, as well as those who live among humans and other tall folk, are sometimes called lightfoot halflings or tallfellows.


HALFLINC TRAITS
Creature Type: Humanoid Size: Small (about 2-3 feet tall) Speed: 30 feet
As a Halfling, you have these special traits.
Brave. You have Advantage on saving throws you make to avoid or end the Frightened condition.
Ha/fling Nimbleness. You can move thrnugh the space of any creature that is a size larger than you, but you can't stop in the same space.
Luck. When you roll a I on the d20 of a 020 Test, you can reroll the die, and you must use the new roll.
Naturally Stealthy. You can take the Hide action even when you a.re obscured only by a creature that is at least one size larger than you.












CHAPTER 4 I CHARACTER ORICJNS	r93




HUMAN
Found throughout the multiverse, humans areas varied as they are numerous, and they endeavor to achieve as much as they can in the years they are given. Their ambition and resourcefulness are com-mended, respected, and feared on many worlds.
Humans are as diverse in appearance as the people of Earth, and they have many gods.Schol-ars dispute the origin of humanity, but one of the earliest known human gatherings is said to have occurred in Sigil, the torus-shaped city at the center of the multiverse and the place where the Common language was born. From there, humans could have spread to every part of the multiverse, bringing the City of Doors' cosmopolitanism with them.

HUMAN TRAITS
Creature Type: Humanoid
Size: Medium (about 4-7 feet tall) or Small (about 2-4
feet tall), chosen when you select this species Speed: 30 feet
As a Human, you have these special traits.
Resourceful. You gain Heroic Inspiration when-ever you finish a Long Rest.
Skillful. You gain proficiency in one skill of your choice.
Versatile. You gain an Origin feat of your choice (see chapter 5).Skilled is recommended.













CHAPTER 4 I CHARACTER ORIGINS



ORC
Ores trace their creation to Gruumsh, a powerful god who roamed the wide open spaces of the Mate-rial Plane. Gruumsh equipped his children with gifts to help them wander great plains, vast caverns, and churning seas and to face the monsters that lurk there. Even ,vhen they turn their devotion to other gods, ores retain Gruumsh's gifts: endurance, deter-mination, and the ability to see in darkness.
Ores are, on average, tall and broad. They have grayskin, cars that are sharply pointed, and prom-inent lower canines that resemble small tusks. Ore youths on some worlds are told about their ances-tors' great travels and travails. Inspired by those tales, many of those ores wonder when Gruumsh will call on them to match the heroic deeds of old and if they will prove worthy of his favor. Other ores are happy to leave old tales in the past and find their own way.

ORCThAITS
Creature Type: Humanoid
Size: Medium (about 6-7 feet tall) Speed: 30 feet
As an Ore, you have these special traits.
Adrenaline Rush. You can take the Dash action as a Bonus Action. When you do so, you gain a number of Temporary Hit Points equal to your Proficiency Bonus.
You can use this trait a number of times equal to your Proficiency Bonus, and you regain all ex-
pended uses when you finish a Short or Long Rest. Darkvision. You have 0arkvision with a range of
120 feet.
Relentless Endurance. When you are reduced to 0 Hit Points but not killed outright, you can drop to 1 Hit Point instead. Once you use this trait, you can't do so again until you finish a Long Rest.


r
•
CliAPTER 4 I CHARACTER ORIGINS	195

lN1tERNA1., T1e,LING



TlEFLING
Tieflings are either born in the Lower Planes or have fiendish ancestors who originated there. A tiefling(pronounced TEE-fling) is linked by blood to a devil. a demon, or some other Fiend. This con-nection to the Lower Planes is the tieAing's fiendish legacy, which comes with the promise of power yet has no effect on the tieAing's moral outlook.
A tieAing chooses whether to embrace or lament their fiendish legacy. The three legacies are de-scribed below.
ABYSSAL
The entropy of the Abyss, the chaos of Pandemo-nium. and the despair of Carceri call to tieflings who have the abyssal legacy. Horns, fur, tusks, and peculiar scents are common physical features of such tieflings, most of whom have the blood of de-mons coursing through their veins.
CttTHONTC
Tieflings who have the chthonic legacy feel not only the tug of Carceri but also the greed of Gehenna and the gloom of Hades. Some of these tieflings look cadaverous. Others possess the unearthly beauty
of a succubus, or they have physical features in common with a night hag, a yugoloth, or some other Neutral Evil fiendish ancestor.
INFERNAL
The infernal legacy connects tie.flings not only to Gehenna but also the Nine Hells and the raging
battlefields of Acheron. Horns,spines, tails, golden	( eyes, and a faint odor of sulfur or smoke are com-
mon physical features of such tieAings, most of whom trace their ancestry to devils.



T!EFUNC TRAITS
Creature Type: Humanoid
Size: Medium (about 4-7 feet tall) or Small (about 3-4 feet tall), chosen when you select this species
Speed: 30 feet
As a Tiefling, you have the following special traits.
Darkvision. You have Darkvision with a range of
60 feet.
Fiendish Legacy. You are the recipient of a legacy that grants you supernatural abilities. Choose a leg-acy from the Fiendish Legacies table. You gain the level I benefit of the chosen legacy.

FIENDISH LEGACIES
When you reach character levels 3 and 5, you learn a higher-level spell, as shown on the table. You always have that spell prepared. You can cast it once without a spell slot, and you regain the ability to cast it in that way when you finish a Long Rest. You can also cast the spell usingany spell slots you have of the appropriate level.
Intelligence, Wisdom, or Charisma is your spell· castingability for the spells you cast with this trait (choose the ability when you select the legacy).
Othenvorldly Presence. You know the Thauma-turgy cantrip. When you cast it with this trait, the spell uses the same spellcasting ability you use for your Fiendish Legacy trait.
Legacy
Abyssal
Levell
You have Resistance to Poison damage. You also know the Poison Spray cantrip.
Level 3
Ray of Sickness
Levels
Hold Person
Chthonic	You have Resistance to Necrotic damage.
You also know the Chill Touch cantrip. Infernal	You have Resistance to Fire damage.
You also know the Fire Boll cantrip.
False Life Hellish Rebuke
Ray of Enfeeblement Darkness
CHAPTER•? I CHARACTER ORICINS	197

CHAPTER 5
FEATS





HIS CHAPTER OFFERS A COLLECTION OF
feats, whi.ch are special features not tied to a character class.A feat represents a talent or
an area of expertise that gives a character special
capabilities. It embodies training, experience. and abilities beyond what a class provides.
The sections below explain the parts of a feat and list a variety of feat options separated into categories.
Your background gives you a feat, and at certain levels. your class gives you the Ability Score Im-provement feat or the choice of another feat for which you qualify.
By whatever means you acquire a feat, you can take it onlyonce unless its description says otherwise.
FEAT DESCRIPTIONS
This chapter's feats are organized by category-Origin, General, Fighting Style, or Epic Boon-and alphabetized in each category. All the feats are listed alphabetically in the Feat List table. If a feat can be taken more than once, an asterisk appears after its name in that table.
PARTS OF A FEAT
The description ofa feat contains the following parts, which are presented after the feat's name.
Category. A feat is a member of a category, which
is noted in the feat. If you're instructed to choose a feat from a specific category, such as the Origin category, that category must appear under the
feat's name. If you're instructed to choose a feat and no category is specified, you can choose from any category.
P,·erequisite. To take a feat, you must meet any
prerequisite in its description unless a feature al-lows you to take the feat without the prerequisite. If a prerequisite includes a class, you must have at least l level in that class to take the feat.
Benefit. The benefits of a feat are detailed after
any prerequisites are listed. [f you have a feat, you gain its benefits.
Repeatable. A feat can be taken only once unless
its description states otherwise in a "Repeatable" subsection.





FEAT LIST
Feat
Ability Score Improvement* Actor
Alert Archery Athlete
Blind Fighting
Boon of Combat Prowess Boon of Dimensional Travel Boon of Energy Resistance Boon of Fate
Boon of Fortitude
Boon of Irresistible Offense Boon of Recovery
Boon of Skill
Boon of Speed Boon of Spell Recall
Boon of the Night Spirit
Boon ofTruesight Charger
Chef Crafter
Crossbow Expert Crusher
Defense Defensive Duelist Dual Wielder Dueling
Durable Elemental Adept* Fey-Touched Grappler
Great Weapon Fighting Great Weapon Master Healer




Category General General Origin Fighting Style General Fighting Style Epic Boon Epic Boon Epic Boon Epic Boon Epic Boon Epic Boon Epic Boon Epic Boon Epic Boon Epic Boon Epic Boon Epic Boon General General Origin General General Fighting Style General General Fighting Style General General General General Fighting Style General Origin
CHAPTER 5 I FEATS	199
Feat
Heavily Armored Heavy Armor Master Inspiring Leader Interception
Keen Mind Lightly Armored Lucky
Mage Slayer Magic Initiate*
Martial Weapon Training
Medium Armor Master
Category General General General Fighting Style General General Origin General Origin General
General
Feat
Tavern Brawler Telekinetic Telepathic
Thrown Weapon Fighting Tough
Two-Weapon Fighting Unarmed Fighting War Caster
Weapon Master
•This (eat can be taken more thanonce.
Category Origin General General Fighting Style Origin Fighting Style Fighting Style General General
Moderately Armored Mounted Combatant Musician
Observant Piercer Poisoner Polearm Master Protection Resilient
Ritual Caster Savage Attacker Sentinel
Shadow-Touched Sharpshooter Shield Master Skilled*
Skill Expert Skulker Slasher Speedy Spell Sniper
General General Origin General General General General Fighting Style General General Origin General General General General Origin General General General General General
ORIGIN FEATS		
These feats are in the Origin category.


ALERT
Origin Feat
You gain the following benefits.
Initiative Proficiency. When you roll lnitiative, you can add your Proficiency Bonus to the roll.
Initiative Swap. Immediately after you roll Initia-
tive. you can swap your Initiative with the Initiative of one willingally in the same combat. You can't make this s,.,ap if you or the ally has the Incapaci-tated condition.


CRAFTER
Origin Feat
You gain the following benefits.
Tool Proficiency. You gain proficiency with three different Artisan's Tools of your choice from the Fast Crafting table.
Discount. Whenever you buy a nonmagical item, you receive a 20 percent discount on it.
Fast Crafting. When you finish a Long Rest, you

can craft one piece of gear from the Fast Crafting table, provided you have the Artisa.n's Tools associ-ated with that item and have proficiency with those tools.The item lasts until you finish another Long Rest, at which point the item falls apart.












200
    • 	$
CHAPTER 5 I FEATS


FAST CRAFTINC
Artisan's Tools Carpenter's Tools

Crafted Gear Ladder, Torch
Leatherworker's Tools Case, Pouch
Mason's Tools Potter's Tools Smith's Tools


Tinker's Tools Weaver's Tools Woodcarver's Tools


HEALER
Origin Feat
Block and Tackle Jug, Lamp
Ball Bearings, Bucket, Caltrops, Grappling Hook, Iron Pot
Bell, Shovel, Tinder Box Basket, Rope, Net, Tent
Club, Greatclub, Quarterstaff











Level 1 Spell. Choose a level I spell from the same list you selected for this feat's cantrips. You always have that spell prepared. You can cast it once with· out a spell slot, and you regain the ability to cast it
You gain the following benefits.
Battle Medic. If you have a Healer's Kit, you can expend one use ofit and tend to a creature within 5 feet of yourself as a Utilize action.That creature can expend one of its Hit Point Dice, and you then roll that die. The creature regains a number of Hjt
Points equal to the roll plus your Proficiency Bonus.
Healing Rerolls. Whenever you roll a die to deter· mine the number of Hit Points you restore with a spell or with this feat's Battle Medic benefit, you can reroll the die if it rolls a I, and you must use the new roll.

LUCKY
Origin Feat
You gain the following benefits.
Luck Points. You have a number of Luck Points equal to your Proficiency Bonus and can spend the points on the benefits below. You regain your ex· pended Luck Points when you finish a Long Rest.
Advantage. When you roll a d20 for a D20 Test, you can spend I Luck Point to give yourself Advan-tage on the roll.
Disadvantage. When a creature roUs a d20 for an attack roll against you, you can spend I Luck Point to impose Disadvantage on that roll.

MAcro INITIATE
Origin Feat
You gain the following benefits.
Thro Cantrips. You learn two cantrips of your choice from the Cleric, Druid, or Wizard spell list. Intelligence, Wisdom, or Charisma is your spelkast· ingability for this feat's spells (choose when you select this feat).
in that way when you finish a Long Rest. You can a!so cast the spell using any spell slots you have.
Spell Change. Whenever you gain a new level. you can replace one of the spells you chose for this feat with a different spell of the same level from the cho· sen spell list.
Repeatable. You can take this feat more than once, but you must choose a different spell list each time.

MUSICIAN
Origin Feat
You gain the following benefits.
Instrument 1raining. You gain proficiency with three Musical Instruments of your choice.
Encouraging Song. As you finish a Short or Long Rest, you can playa song on a Musical Instrument with which you have proficiency and give Heroic Inspiration to allies who hear the song. The number of allies you can affect in this way equals your Pro· ficiency Bonus.

SAVAGE ATTACKER
Origin Feat
You've trained to deal particularly damaging strikes. Once per turn when you hit a target with a weapon, you can roll the weapon's damage dice twice and use either roll against the target.

SKILLED
Origin Feat
You gain proficiency in anycombination of three skillsor tools of your choice.
Repeatable. You can take this feat more than once.
CRAPTER 5 I FEATS	201
TAVERN BRAWLER
Origin Feat
You gain the following benefits.
Enhanced Unarmed Strike. When you hit with your Unarmed Strike and deal damage, you can deal Bludgeoning damage equal to ld4 plus your Strength modifier instead of the normal damage of an Unarmed Strike.
Damage Rerolls. Whenever you roll a damage die for your Unarmed Strike, you can reroll the die if it rolls a I, and you must use the new roll.
Improvised Weaponry. You have proficiency with improvised weapons.
Push. When you hit a creature with an Unarmed Strike as part of the Attack action on your turn, you can deal damage to the target and also push it 5 feet away from you. You can use this benefit only once per turn.


TOUGH
Origin Feat
Your Hit Point maximum increases byan amount equal to twice your character level when you gain this feat. Whenever you gain a character level thereafter, your Hit Point maximum increases by an additional 2 Hit Points.
GENERAL FEATS		
These featsare in the General category.
ATHLETE
General Feat (Prerequisite: Level 4+, Strength or Dexterity 13+)
You gain the Following benefits.
Ability Score Increase. Increase your Strength or Dexterity score by J, to a maJ<imum of 20.
Climb Speed. You gain a Climb Speed equal to your Speed.
HopUp.When you have the Prone condition, you can right yourself with only 5 feet of movement.
Jumping. You can make a running Long or High Jump after moving only 5 feet.

CHARGER
General Feat (Prerequisite: Level 4+, Strength or Dexterity 13+)
You gain the following benefits.
Ability Score Increase. Increase your Strength or Dexterity score by I, to a maximum of 20.
lmproved Dash. When you take the Dash action, your Speed increases by 10 feet for that action.
Charge Attack. If you move at least 10 feet in a straight line toward a target immediately before hit-ting it with a melee attack roll as part of the Attack action. choose one of the following effects: gain a ld8 bonus to the attack's damage roll. or push the target up to 10 feet away if it is no more than one size larger than you. You can use this benefit only once on each of your turns.

ABILITY SCORE IMPROVEMENT
General Feat (Prerequisite: Level 4+)
Increase one ability score of your choice by 2, or increase two ability scores of your choice by I. This feat can't increase an ability score above 20.
Repeatable. You can take this feat more than once.

ACTOR
General Feat (Prerequisite: Level 4+, Charisma 13•)
You gain the following benefits.
Ability Score Increase. Increase your Charisma score by l, to a maximum of 20.
Impersonation.While you're disguised as a real or fictional person, you have Advantage on Charisma (Deception or Performance) checks to convince others that you are that person.
Mimicry. You can mimic the sounds of other crea· tures, including speech. A creature that hears the mimicry must succeed on a Wisdom (Insight) check to determine the effect is faked (DC 8 plus your Charisma modifier and Proficiency Bonus).
CHEF
General Peat (Prerequisite: Level 4•)
You gain the following benefits.
Ability Score Increase. Increase your Constitution or Wisdom score by I. to a maximum of 20.
Cook's Utensils. You gain proficiency with Cook's Utensils if you don't already have it.
Replenishing Meal.As part of a Short Rest, you can cook special food if you have ingredients and Cook's Utensils on hand. You can prepare enough of this food for a number of creatures equal to 4
plus your Proficiency Bonus. At the end of the Short Rest, any creature who eats the food and spends one or more Hit Dice to regain Hit Points regains an extra ld8 Hit Points.
Bolstering Treats. With I hour of work or when you finish a Long Rest, you can cook a number of treats equal to your Proficiency Bonus if you have ingredients and Cook's Utensils on hand.These spe-cial treats last 8 hours after being made. A creature can use a Bonus Action to eat one of those treats
to gain a number of Temporary Hit Points equal to your Proficiency Bonus.


202	CHAPTER 5 I PEATS
CROSSBOW EXPERT
General Feat (Prerequisite: Level 4+, Dexterity 13+)
You gain the following benefits.
Ability Score Increase. Increase your Dexterity score by I, to a maximum of 20.
Ignore Loading. You ignore the Loading property of the Hand Crossbow, Heavy Crossbow, and Light Crossbow (all called crossbows elsewhere in this feat). If you're holding one of them, you can load a piece of ammunition into it even if you lack a free hand.
Firingin Melee. Being within 5 feet of an enemy doesn't impose Disadvantage on your attack rolls
with crossbows.
Dual Wielding. When you make the extra attack of the Light property, you can add your ability modifier to the damage of the extra attack if that at-tack is with a crossbow that has the Light property and you aren't already adding that modifier to the damage.

CRUSHER
General Feat (Prerequisite: Level 4+)
You gain the following benefits.
Ability Score Increase. Increase your Strength or Constitution score by I, to a maximum of 20.
Push. Once per turn, when you hit a creature with an attack that deals Bludgeoning damage, you can move it 5 feet to an unoccupied space if the target is no more than one size larger than you.
Enhanced Critical. When you score a Critical Hit that deals Bludgeoning damage to a creature, attack rolls against that creature have Advantage until the start of your next turn.

DEFENSIVE DUELIST
GenerCII Feat (Prerequisite: level 4+, Dexterity 13+)
You gain the following benefits.
Ability Score Increase. Increase your Dexterity score by I, to a maximum of 20.
Parry. If you're holding a Finesse weapon and another creature hits you with a melee attack, you can take a Reaction to add your Proficiency Bonus to your Armor Class, potentially causing the attack to miss you. You gain this bonus to your AC against melee attacks until the start of your next turn.
DUAL WlELDER
General Feat (Prerequisite: Level 4+, Strength or
Dexterity 13+)
You gain the following benefits.
Ability Score Increase. Increase your Strength or Dexterity score by 1, to a maximum of 20.
Enhanced Dual Wielding. When you take the At-tack action on your turn and attack with a weapon that has the Light property, you can make one extra attack as a Bonus Action later on the same turn with a different weapon, which must be a Melee weapon that lacks the 1\vo-Handed property. You don't add your ability modifier to the extra attack's damage unless that modifier is negative.
Quick Draw. You can draw or stow two weap-ons that lack the1\vo-Handed property wben you would normally be able to draw or stow only one.

DURABLE
General Feat (Prerequisite: Level 4+)
You gain the following benefits.
Ability Score Increase. Increase your Constitution score by I, to a maximum of 20.
Defy Death. You have Advantage on Death Saving Throws,
Speedy Recovery. As a Bonus Action, you can ex-pend one of your Hit Point Dice, roll tbe die, and regain a number of Hit Points equal to the roll.

ELEMENTAL ADEPT
General Feat (Prerequisite: Level 4+, Spellcasting or Pact Magic Feature)
You ga.in the following benefits.
Ability Score Increase. Increase your Intelligence, Wisdom, or Charisma score by I, to a maximum of 20.
Energy Mastery. Choose one of the following dam•
age types: Acid, Cold, Fire, Lightning, or Thunder. Spells you cast ignore Resistance to damage of the chosen type. In addition, when you roll damage for a spell you cast that deals damage of that type, you can treat any1 on a damage die as a 2.
Repeatable. You can take this feat more than once, but you must choose a different damage type each time for Energy Mastery.









CHAPTER 5 I FEATS	203




FEY-TOUCHED
General Feat(Prerequisite: Level4+)
Your exposure to the Feywild's magic grants you the following benefits.
Ability Score Increase. Increase your Intelligence, Wisdom, or Charisma score by I, to a maximum of 20.
Fey Magic. Choose one level I spell from the Divi· nation or Enchantment school of magic. You always have that spell and the Misty Stepspell prepared.
You can cast each of these spells without expending a spell slot. Once you cast either spell in this way, you can't cast that spell in this way again until you finish a Long Rest. Youcan also cast these spells us• ing spell slots you have of the appropriate level.The spells' spellcasting ability is the ability increased by this feat.

GRAPPLER
General Feat (Prerequisite:Level 4+, Strength or
Dexterity 13+)
You gain the following benefits.
Ability Score Increase. Increase your Strength or Dexterity score by 1, to a maximum of 20.
Punchand Grab. When you hit a creature with an Unarmed Strike as part of the Attack action on your turn, you can use both the Damage and the Grapple option. You can use this benefit only once per turn.
Attack Advantage. You have Advantage on attack rolls against a creature Grappled by you.
Fast Wrestler. Your Speed isn't halved when you move a creature Grappled by you if the creature is your size or smaller.

GREAT WEAPON MASTER
General Feat (Prerequisite: Level4+, Strength 13+)
You gain the following benefits.
Ability Score Increase. Increase your Strength score by 1, to a maximum of 20.
Heavy Weapon Mastery. When you hit a creature with a weapon that has the Heavy property as part of the Attack action on your turn, you can cause the weapon to deal extra damage to the target. The extra damage equals your Proficiency Bonus.
Hew. Immediately aA:er you score a Critical Hit with a Melee weapon or reduce a creature to O Hit Points with one, you can make one attack with the same weapon as a Bonus Action.







?04	CHAPTERS I FEATS





















HEAVILY ARMORED
General Feat (Pre,·equisite: Level 4+, Medium Armor Training)
You gain the following benefits.
Ability Score Increase. Increase your Constitution or Strength score by I. to a maximum of 20.
Armor Training. You gain training with Heavy armor.

HEAVY ARMOR MASTER
General Feat (Prerequisite: Level 4+, Heavy Armor Training)
You gain the following benefits.
Ability Score Increase. Increase your Constitution or Strength score by I, to a maximum of 20.
Damage Reduction. When you're hit by an attack while you're wearing Heavy armor, any Bludgeon· ing, Piercing, and Slashing damage dealt to you by that attack is reduced by an amount equal to your Proficiency Bonus.

INSPIRING LEADER
Ge11eral Feat (Prerequisite: Level4+, Wisdom or
Charisma 13+)
You gain the following benefits.
Ability Score Increase. Increase your Wisdom or Charisma score by I, to a maximum of 20.
Bolstering Performance. When you finish a Short or Long Rest, you can give an inspiring perfor-mance: a speech, song, or dance. When you do so, choose up tosix allies (which can include yourself) within 30 feet of yourself who witness the perfor-mance.The chosen creatures each gain Temporary Hit Points equal to your character level plus the modifier of the ability you increased with this feat.



KEEN MIND
General Feat (Prerequisite: Level4•, Intelligence /3+)
Yougain the following benefits.
Ability Score Increase. Increase your Intelligence score by I, to a maximum of 20.
Lore Knowledge. Choose one of the following skills: Arcana, History, Investigation, Nature, or Religion. If you lack proficiency in the chosen skill, you gain proficiency in it. and if you already have proficiency in it, you gain Expertise in it.
Quick Study. You can take the Study action as a Bonus Action.

LIGHTLY ARMORED
General Feat (Prerequisite: Level 4•)
You gain the following benefits.
Ability Score Increase. Increase your Strength or Dexterity score by I, to a maximum of 20.
Armor Training. You gain training with Light ar-mor and Shields.

MAOE SLAYER
General Feat (Prerequisite: Level 4+)
You gain the following benefits.
Ability Score Increase. Increase your Strength or Dexterity score by I, to a maximum of 20.
Concentration Breaker. When you damage a creature that is concentrating. it has Disadvan-tage on the saving throw it makes to maintain Concentration.
Guarded Mind. If you fail an Intelligence. a Wis-dom. or a Charisma saving throw, you can cause yourself to succeed instead. Once you use this ben-efit, you can't use it again until you finish a Short or Long Rest.

MARTIAL WEAPON TRAINI NO
General Feat (Prerequisite: Level 4•)
You gain the following benefits.
Ability Score Increase. Increase your Strength or Dexterity score by I, to a maximum of 20.
Weapon Proficiency. You gain proficiency with Martial weapons.

MEDIUM ARMOR MASTER
General Feat (Prerequisite: Level 4•, Medium Armor Training)
You gain the following benefits.
Ability Score lncrease. Increase your Strength or Dexterity score by I, to a maximum of 20.
Dexterous Wearer. While you're wearing Medium armor, you can add 3, rather than 2. to your AC if you have a Dexterity score of 16 or higher.

MODERATELY ARMORED
General Feat (Prerequisite: Level 4+, light Armor Training)
You gain the following benefits.
Ability Score Increase. Increase your Strength or Dexterity score by I. to a maximum of 20.
Annor Training. You gain training with Medium armor.

MOUNTED COMBATANT
General Feat (Prerequisite: Level 4•)
You gain the following benefits.
Ability Score Increase. Increase your Strength, Dexterity, or Wisdom score by I. to a maximum of 20.
Mounted Strike. While mounted. you have Advan-tage on attack rolls against any unmounted crea-ture within 5 feet of your mount that is at least one size smaller than the mount.
Leap Aside. If your mount is subjected to an effect that allows it to make a Dexterity saving throw to take only half damage. it instead takes no damage if it succeeds on the saving throw and only half dam-age if it fails. For your mount to gain this benefit, you must be riding it. and neither of you can have the Incapacitated condition.
Veer. While mounted, you can force an attack that hits your mount to hit you instead if you don't have the Incapacitated condition.

OBSERVANT
General Feat (Prerequisite: Level 4 +, Intelligence or
Wisdom 13•)
You gain the following benefits.
Ability Score Increase. Increase your Intelligence or Wisdom score by I, to a maximum of 20.
Keen Observer. Choose one of the following skills: Insight, Investigation, or Perception. If you lack pro-ficiency with the chosen skill, you gain proficiency in it. and if you already have proficiency in it, you gain Expertise in it.
Quick Search. You can take the Search action as a Bonus Action.








CIIAPTER 5 I HATS	205


PIERCER
General Feat (Prerequisite: Level4+)
You gain the following benefits.
Ability Score Increase. Increase your Strength or Dexterity by I, to a maximum of 20.
Puncture. Once per turn, when you hit a creature with an attack that deals Piercing damage, you can reroll one of the attack's damage dice, and you must use the new roll.
Enhanced Critical. When you score a Critical Hit that deals Piercing damage to a creature, you can rol.l one additional damage die when determining the extra Piercing damage the target takes.

POISONER
General Feat (Prerequisite: Level 4+)
You gain the following benefits.
Ability Score Increase. Increase your Dexterity or Intelligence score by I, to a maximum of 20.
Potent Poison. When you make a damage roll that deals Poison damage, it ignores Resistance to Poison damage.
Brew Poison. You gain proficiency with the Poi• soner's Kit. With 1 hour of ,11ork usingsuch a kit and expending 50 GP worth of materials, you can create a number of poison doses equal to your Proficiency Bonus. As a Bonus Action, you can apply a poison dose to a weapon or piece of ammunition. Once applied, the poison retains its potency for I minute or until you hit with the poisoned item, whichever is shorter. When a creature takes damage from
the poisoned item, that creature must succeed on a Constitution saving throw (DC 8 plus the modifier of the ability increased by this feat and your Profi-ciency Bonus) or take 2d8 Poison damage and have the Poisoned condition until the end of your next turn.
POLEARM MASTER
General Feat (Prerequisite: Level 4+, Strength or Dexterity 13+)
You gain the following benefits.
Ability Score Increase. Increase your Dexterity or Strength score by1, to a maximum of 20.
Pole Strike. Immediately aA:er you take the Attack action and attack with a Quarterstaff, a Spear, or a weapon that has tbe Heavy and Reach properties, you can use a Bonus Action to make a me.lee attack with the opposite end of the weapon. The weapon deals Bludgeoning damage, and the weapon's dam• age die for this attack is a d4.
Reactive Strike. While you're holding a Quarter· staff, a Spear, or a weapon that has the Heavy and Reach properties, you can take a Reaction to make one melee attack against a creature that enters the reach you have with that weapon.

RESILIENT
General Feat (Prerequisite: Level4+) You gain the following benefits.
Ability Score Increase. Choose one ability in which
you lack saving throw proficiency. Increase the cho• sen ability score by 1, to a maximum of 20.
SavingThrow Proficiency. You gain saving throw proficiency with the chosen ability.

RITUAL CASTER
General Feat (Prerequisite: Level 4•; /11te/ligence,
Wisdom, or Charisma 13•)
You gain the following benefits.
Ability Score lnc,·ease. 1ncrease your Intelligence, Wisdom, or Charisma score by I, to a maximum of 20.
Ritual Spells. Choose a number of level l spells equal to your Proficiency Bonus that have the Rit· ual tag. You always have those spells prepared, and you can cast them with anyspell slots you have.The














spells' spellcasting ability is the ability increased by this feat. Whenever your Proficiency Bonus in-creases thereafter, you can add an additional level I spell with the Ritual tag to the spells always pre-pared with this feature.
Quick Ritual. With this benefit, you can cast a Ritual spell that you have prepared using its regular casting time rather than the extended time for a Rit-ual. Doingso doesn't require a spell slot. Once you cast the spell in this way, you can't use this benefit again until you finish a Long Rest.

SENTINEL
General Feat (Prerequisite: Level 4+, Strength or
Dexterity 13+)
You gain the following benefits.
Ability Score Increase. Increase your Strength or Dexterity score by I, to a maximum of 20.
Guardian. Immediately after a creature within 5 feet of you takes the Disengage action or hits a tar-get other than you with an attack, you can make an Opportunity Attack against that creature.
Halt. When you hit a creature with an Opportu-nity Attack, the creature's Speed becomes 0 for the rest of the current turn.

SHADOW-TOUCHED
General Peat (Prerequisite: Level 4+)
Your exposure to the Shadowfell's magic grants you the following benefits.
Ability Score Increase. Increase your lntelligence, Wisdom, or Charisma score by .I, to a max-imum of 20.
Shadow Magic. Choose one level I spell from the Illusion or Necromancy school of magic. You always have that spell and the Invisibility spell prepared.
You can cast each of these spells without expending a spell slot. Once you cast either spell in this way, you can't cast that spell in this way again until you finish a Long Rest. You can also cast these spells us-ing spell slots you have of the appropriate level. The spells' spellcasting ability is tbe ability increased by this feat.

SHARPSHOOTER
General Feat (Prerequisite: Level 4+, Dexterity 13+)
You gain the following benefits.
Ability Score Increase. Increase your Dexterity score by I, to a maximum of 20.
Bypass Cover. Your ranged attacks with weapons ignore Half Cover and Three-Quarters Cover.


Firing in Melee. Being within 5 feet of an enemy doesn't impose Disadvantage on your attack rolls with Ranged weapons.
Long Shots. Attacking at long range doesn't im-pose Disadvantage on your attack rolls with Ranged weapons.

SHIELD MASTER
General Feat (Prerequisite: Level 4+,Shield Training)
You gain the following benefits.
Ability Score Increase. Increase your Strength score by I, to a maximum of 20.
Shield Bash. If you attack a creature within 5 feet of you as part of the Attack action and hit with a Melee weapon, you can immediately bash the target with your Shield if it's equipped, forcing the target to make a Strength saving throw (DC 8 plus your Strength modifier and Proficiency Bonus). On a failedsave, you either push the target 5 feet from you or cause it to have the Prone condition (your choice). You can use this benefit only once on each of your turns.
Interpose Shield. If you're subjected to an effect that allows you to make a Dexterity saving throw to take only half damage,you can take a Reaction to take no damage if you succeed on the saving throw and are holding a Shield.

SKILL EXPERT
General Feat (Prerequisite: Level 4+)
You gain the following benefits.
Ability Score Increase. Increase one ability score of your choice by I, to a maximum of 20.
Skill Proficiency. Yougain proficiency in one skill of your choice.
Expertise. Choose one skill in which you have pro-ficiency but lack Expertise. You gain Expertise with that skill.
CHAPTER 5 I FEATS	207
SKULKER
General Feat (Prerequisite: Level4+, Dexterity13+)
You gain the following benefits.
Ability Score Increase. Increase your Dexterity score by I, to a maximum of 20.
Blindsight. You have Blindsight with a range ofl0
feet.
Fogof War. You exploit the distractions of battle, gaining Advantage on any Dexterity (Stealth) check you make as part of the Hide action duringcombat.
Sniper. If you make an attack roll while hidden and the roll misses, making the attack roll doesn't reveaI your location.

SLASHER
Gener-al Feat (Prerequisite: Level 4+)
You gain the following benefits.
Ability Score Increase. Increase your Strength or Dexterity score by I, to a maximum of 20.
Hamstring. Once per turn when you hit a creature with an attack that deals Slashing damage, you can reduce the Speed of that creature by10 feet until the start of your next turn.
Enhanced Critical. When you score a Critical Hit that deals Slashing damage to a creature, it has Disadvantage on attack rolls until the start of your next turn.

SPEEDY
General Feat (Prerequisite:Level 4+, Dexterity or Constitution 13+)
You gain the following benefits.
Ability Score Increase. Increase your Dexterity or Constitution score by 1, to a maximum of 20.
Speed Increase. Your Speed increases by10 feet.
Dash over Difficult Teri·ain. When you take the Dash action on your turn, Difficult Terrain doesn't cost you extra movement for the rest of that turn.
Agile Movement. Opportunity Attacks have Disad· vantage against you.
SPELL SNIPER
General Feat (Prerequisite: Level 4+,Spellcasting or Pact Magic Feature)
You gain the following benefits.
Ability Score Increase. Increase your Intelligence, Wisdom, or Charisma score by l, to a maximum of 20.
Bypass Cover. Your attack rolls for spells ignore Half Cover and Three-Quarters Cover.
Casting in Melee. Being within 5 feet of an enemy doesn't impose Disadvantage on your attack rolls with spells.
Increased Range. When you cast a spell that has a range of at least 10 fe.et and requires you to make an attack roll, you can increase the spell's range by 60 feet.

TELEK!Nl:TIC
General Feat (Prerequisite: Level4+)
You gain the following benefits.
Ability Score Increase. Increase your Intelligence, Wisdom, or Charisma score by I, to a maximum of 20.
Minor Telekinesis. You learn the Mage Hand spell. You can cast it without Verbal or Somatic compo· nents, you can make the spectraI hand lnvisible. and its range increases by 30 feet when you cast it. The spelJ's spellcasting ability is the ability increased by this feat.
Telekinetic Sl,ove. As a Bonus Action, you can tele• kinetically shove one creature you can see within 30 feet of yourself. When you do so, the target must succeed on a Strength saving throw (DC 8 plus the ability modifier of the score increased by this feat and your Proficiency Bonus) or be moved 5 feet to· ward or away from you.

TELEPATHIC
General Feat (Prerequisite: Level 4+)
You gain the following benefits.
Ability Score Increase. Increase your Intelligence, Wisdom. or Charisma score by 1, to a maximum of 20.
Telepathic Utterance. You can speak telepathically to any creature you can see within 60 feet of your· self. Your telepathic utterances are in a language you know, and the creature understands you only
if it knows that language. Your communication doesn't give the creature the ability to respond to you telepathically.






208	Cl,IAPTER 5 I FEATS
Detect Thoughts. You always have the Detect Thoughts spell prepared. You can cast it without a spell slot or spell components, and you must finish
a Long Rest before you can cast it in this way again. You can also cast it using spell slots you have of the appropriate level. Your spellcasting ability for the spell is the ability increased by this feat.

WAR CASTER
General Feat (Prerequisite:Level 4+, Spel/casting or Pact Magic Feature)
You gain the following benefits.
Ability Score Increase. Increase your Intelligence. Wisdom, or Charisma score by 1. to a maximum of 20.
Concentrat'ion. You have Advantage on Consti·
tution saving throws that you make to maintain Concentration.
Reactive Spell.When a creature provokes an Op· portunity Attack from you by leaving your reach, you can take a Reaction to cast a spell at the crea-ture rather than making an Opportunity Attack. The spell must have a casting time of one action and must target only that creature.
Somatic Components. You can perform the So· matic components of spells even when you have weapons or a Shield in one or both hands.

WEAPON MASTER
General Feat (Prerequisite: Level 4+)
You gain the following benefits.
Ability Score Increase. Increase your Strength or Dexterity score by 1, to a maximum of 20.
Mastery Property. Your training with weapons al-lows you to use the mastery property of one kind of Simple or Martial weapon of your choice, provided you have proficiency with it. Whenever you finish
a Long Rest, you can change the kind of weapon to another eligible kind.
FIGHTING STYLE FEATS
These feats are in the Fighting Style category.

DEFENSE
Fighting Style Feat (Prerequisite: Fighting Style Feature)
While you're wearing Light, Medium, or Heavy ar-mor, you gain a +I bonus to Armor Class.

DUELING
Fighting Style Feat (Prerequisite: Pigliting Style Feature)
When you're holding a Melee weapon in one hand and no other weapons, you gain a +2 bonus to dam-age rolls with that weapon.

GREAT WEAPON FIGHTING
Fighting Style Feat (Prerequisite: Fighting Style Feature)
When you roll damage for an attack you make with a Melee weapon that you are holding with two hands. you can treat any I or 2 on a damage die as a
3. The weapon must have the Two-Handed or Versa-tile property to gain this benefit.

INTERCEPTION
Fighting Style Feat (Prerequisite: Fighting Style Feature)
When a creature you can see hits another creature within 5 feet of you with an attack roll, you can take a Reaction to reduce the damage dealt to the target by ldlO plus your Proficiency Bonus. You must be holding a Shield or a Simple or Martial weapon to use this Reaction.

PROTECTION
FightingStyle Feat (Prerequisite: Fighting Style Feature)
When a creature you can see attacks a target other than you that is within 5 feet of you, you can take a Reaction to interpose your Shield if you're holding one. You impose Disadvantage on the triggering attack roll and all other attack rolls against the tar· get until the start of your next turn if you remain within 5 feet of the target.

ARCHERY
Fighting Style Feat (Prerequisite: Fighting Style Feahire)
You gain a +2 bonus to attack rolls you make with Ranged weapons.

BLIND FIGHTING
FightingStyle Feat (Prerequisite: Fighting Style Feature)
You have Blindsight with a range of 10 feet.

















209
THROWN WEAPON FIGHTING
FightingStyle Feat (Prerequisite: Fighting Style Feature)
When you hit with a ranged attack roll usinga weapon that has the Thrown property, you gain a
+2 bonus to the damage roll.


Tho-WEAPON FIGHTING
Fighting Style Feat (Prerequisite: FightingStyle Feature)
When you make an extra attack as a result of using a weapon that has the Light property, you can add your ability modifier to the damage of that attack if you aren't already adding it to the damage.

UNARMED FIGHTING
Fighting Style Feat (Prerequisite: FightingStyle Feature)
When you hit with your Unarmed Strike and deal damage, you can deal Bludgeoning damage equal to ld6 plus your Strength modifier instead of the normal damage of an Unarmed Strike. If you aren't
holding any weapons or a Shield when you make the attack roll, the d6 becomes a d8.
At the start of each of your turns, you can deal ld4 Bludgeoning damage to one creature Grap-pled by you.
EPIC BOON FEATS
These feats are in the Epic Boon category.


BOON OF COMBAT PROWESS
Epic Boon Feat (Prerequisite: Level 19+)
You gain the following benefits.
Ability Score Increase. Increase one ability score of your choice by I, to a maximum of 30.
Peerless Aim. When you miss with an attack roll, you can hit instead. Once you use this benefit. you can't use it again until the start of your next turn.


Boor.OFDIMENSIONAL TRAVEL
Epic Boon Feat (Prerequisite: Level 19+)
You gain the following benefits.
Ability Score Increase. Increase one abmty score of your choice by l, to a maximum of 30.
Blink Steps. Immediately alter you take the Attack action or the Magic action, you can teleport up to 30 feet to an unoccupied space you can see.
BOON OF ENERGY RESISTANCE
Epic Boon Feat (Prerequisite: Level /9+)
You gain the following benefits.
Ability Score Increase. Increase one ability score of your choice by1, to a maximum of 30.
Energy Resistances. You gain Resistance to two of the following damage types of your choice: Acid. Cold. Fire, Lightning, Necrotic, Poison, Psychic, Radiant, or Thunder. Whenever you finish a Long Rest, you can change your choices.
Energy Redirection. When you take damage of one of the types chosen for the Energy Resistances benefit, you can take a Reaction to direct damage of the same type toward another creature you can see within 60 feet of yourself that isn't behind Total Cover. If you do so, that creature must succeed on
a Dexterity saving throw (DC 8 plus your Constitu• tion modifier and Proficiency Bonus) or take dam-age equal to 2dl2 plus your Constitution modifier.

BOON OF FATE
Epic Boon Feat (Prerequisite: Level /9+)
You gain the following benefits.
Ability Score Increase. Increase one ability score of your choice by I, to a maximum of 30.
Improve Fate. When you or another creature within 60 feet of you succeeds on or fails a 020 Test, you can roll 2d4 and apply the total rolled as a bonus or penalty to the d20 roll. Once you use this benefit, you can't use it again until you roll Initiative or finish a Short or Long Rest.

BOON OFFORTITUDE
Epic Boon Feat (Prerequisite: Level 19+)
You gain the following benefits.
Ability Score Increase. Increase one ability scoreof your choice by I, to a maximum of 30.
Fortified Health. Your Hit Point maxjmum in-creases by 40. In addition, whenever you regain Hit Points, you can regain additional Hit Points equal to your Constitution modifier. Once you've regained these additional Hit Points, you can't doso again until the start of your next turn.









?IO	CHA-PTER 5 I FEATS




BOON OF IRRESISTIBLE OFFENSE
Epic Boon Feat (Prerequisite: Level 19•)
You gain the following benefits.
Ability Score Increase. Increase your Strength or /  Dexterity score by I, to a maximum of 30.
Overcome Defenses. The Bludgeoning, Piercing, and Slashing damage you deal always ignores Resistance.
Overwhelming Strike. When you roll a 20 on the d20 for an attack roll, you can deal extra damage to the target equal to the ability score increased by this feat. The extra damage's type is the same as the attack's type.

BOON OF RECOVERY
Epic Boon Feat (Prerequisite: Level 19+)
You gain the following benefits.
Ability Score Increase. Increase one ability score of your choice by 1, to a maximum of 30.
Last Stand. When you would be reduced to 0
I-lit Points, you can drop to 1 Hit Point instead and regain a number of Hit Points equal to half your
I-lit Point maximum. Once you use this benefit, you can't use it again until you finish a Long Rest.
Recover Vitality. You have a pool of ten dt0s. As a Bonus Action, you can expend dice from the pool, roll those dice, and regain a number of I-lit Points equal to the roll's total. You regain all the expended dice when you finish a Long Rest.

BOON OF SKILL
Epic Boon Feat (Prerequisite: Level 19+)
You gain the following benefits.
Ability Score Increase. Increase one ability score of your choice by 1, to a maximum of 30.
All-Around Adept. You gain proficiency in all skills.
Expertise. Choose one skill in which you lack Ex· pertise. You gain Expertise in that skill.

BOON OF SPEED
Epic Boon Feat (Prerequisite: Level 19+)
You gain the following benefits.
Ability Score Increase. Increase one ability score of your choice by 1, to a maximum of 30.
Escape Artist. As a Bonus Action, you can take the Disengage action. which also ends the Grappled condition on you.
Quickness. Your Speed increases by 30 feet.
?
-




BOON OF SPELL RECALL
epic Boon Feat (Prerequisite: Level 19+, Spellcasti11g Feature)
Yougain the following benefits.
Ability Score Increase. Increase your Intelligence, Wisdom, or Charisma score by 1, to a maximum of 30.
Free Casting. Whenever you cast a spell with a level 1-4 spell slot, roll ld4. rf the number you roll is the same as the slot's level, the slot isn't expended.

BOON OF THE NIGHT SPTRIT
Epic Boon Feat (Prerequisite:Level 19•)
You gain the following benefits.
Ability Scare Increase. Increase one ability scoreof your choice by 1, to a maximum of 30.
Merge with Shadows. While within Dim Lightor Darkness, you can give yourself the Invisible condi-tion as a Bonus Action. The condition ends on you
immediately after you take an action, a Bonus Ac-tion, or a Reaction.
Shadowy Form. While within Dim Light or Dark· ness, you have Resistance to all damage except Psy· chic and Radiant.

BOON OF TRUESIGHT
Epic Boon Feat (P1·erequisite:Level 19•)
You gain the following benefits.
Ability Score Increase. Increase one ability score of your choice by1, to a maximum of 30.
Truesight. You have Truesight with a range of 60 feet.




CHAPTER 5 I F'EATS	2II

CHAPTER 6
EQUIPMENT



HE RIGHT EQUIPMENT CAN MAKE THE
difference between success and failure for adventurers. This chapter provides rules and
prices for weapons, armor, and other kinds of equip-ment that characters might purchase or find.The DM lets you know if a shop has an item for sale and whether it's available at the listed price.
COINS
Characters often find coins on their adventures and can spend those coins in shops, inns, and other businesses. Coins come in different denominations based on the relative worth of their material. The Coin Values table lists coins and how much they're
worth relative to the Gold Piece. which is the game's main coin. F'or example,100 Copper Pieces are worth I Gold Piece.
A coin weighs about a third of an ounce, so fifty coins weigh a pound.

COIN VALUES
Damage. The table lists the amount of damage a weapon deals when an attacker hits with it as well as the type of that damage.
Properties. Any properties a weapon has are listed in the Properties column. Each property is defined in the "Properties" section.
Mastery. Each weapon has a mastery property, which is defined in the "Mastery Properties" sec-tion later in th is chapter. To use that property, you must have a feature that lets you use it.
WEAPON PROFICIENCY
Anyone can wield a weapon, but you must have proficiency with it to add your Proficiency Bonus to an attack roll you make with it. A player character's features can provide weapon proficiencies. A mon-ster is proficient with any weapon in its stat block.
PROPERTIES
Here are definitions of the properties in the Proper-ties column of the Weapons table.
Coin
Copper Piece (CP) Silver Piece (SP) Electrum Piece (EP) Gold Piece (GP) Platinum Piece (PP)
WEAPONS
Value in GP
1/100
1/10
1/2
1
10
AMMUNITION
You can use a weapon that has the Ammunition property to make a ranged attack only if you have ammunition to Are from it. The type of ammunition required is specified with the weapon's range. Each attack expends one piece of ammunition. Drawing the ammunition is part of the attack (you need a free hand to load a one-handed weapon). AA:er a fight, you can spend I minute to recover half the
The Weapons table in this section shows the game's main weapons. The table lists the cost and weight of each weapon, as well as the following details:
Category. Every weapon falls into a category: Sim-ple or Martial. Weapon proficiencies are usually tied to one of these categories. For example, you might have proficiency with Simple weapons.
Melee or Ranged. Aweapon is classified as either Melee or Ranged. A Melee weapon is used to attack a target within 5 feet, whereas a Ranged weapon is used to attack at a greater distance.


SELLINC EQUIPMENT
Equipment fetches half its cost when sold. In con-trast, trade goods and valuables-like gems and art objects-retain their full value in the market-place. The Dungeon Master's Cwide has prices for
    • magic items.


ammunition (round down) you used in the Aght; the rest is lost.
FINESSE
When making an attack with a Finesse weapon, use your choice of your Strength or Dexterity modifier for the attack and damage rolls. You must use the same modifier for both rolls.
HEAVY
You have Disadvantage on attack rolls with a Heavy weapon if it'sa Melee weapon and your Strength score isn't at least 13 or if it's a Ranged weapon and your Dexterity score isn't at least 13.
LIGHT
When you take the Attack action on your turn and attack with a Light weapon, you ca"n make one extra attack as a Bonus Action later on the same turn.
That extra attack must be made with a different
CHAPTER 6 I EQUIPMENT	213

IMPROVISED WEAPONS
If you use an object-such as a table leg, frying pan, or bottle-as a makeshift weapon, see "Im-provised Weapons" in the rules glossary. Also see those rules if you wield a weapon in an unusual way, such as usinga Ranged weapon to make a melee attack.


Light weapon, and you don't add your ability mod· ifier to the extra attack's damage unless that modi-fier is negative. For example, you can attack with a Shortsword in one hand and a Dagger in the other using the Attack action and a Bonus Action, but you don't add your Strength or Dexterity modifier to the damage roll of the Bonus Action unless that modi• fie.r is negative.
LOADJNG
You can fire. only one piece of ammunition from a Loading weapon when you use an action, a Bonus Action, or a Reaction to fireit, regardless of the number of attacks you can normally make.
RANGE
A Range weapon has a range in parentheses after the Ammunition or Thrown property. The range lists two numbers. The first is the weapon's normal range in feet, and the second is the weapon's long range. When attacking a target beyond normal range, you have Disadvantage on the attack roll.
You can't attack a target beyond the long range.
REACH
A Reach weapon adds 5 feet to your reach when you attack with it, as well as when determining your reach for Opportunity Attacks with it.
THROWN
If a we.ipon has the Thrown property, you can throw the weapon to make a ranged attack, and you can draw that weapon as part of the attack. If the weapon is a Melee weapon, use the same ability modifier for the attack and damage rolls that you use for a melee attack with that weapon.
Two-HANDED
ATwo-Handed weapon requires two hands when you attack with it.
VERSATILE
A Versatile weapon can be used with one or two hands. A damage value in parentheses appears with the property. The weapon deals that damage when used with two hands to make a melee attack.
MASTERY PROPERTIES
Each weapon has a mastery property, which is us-able only by a character who has a feature, such as Weapon Mastery, that unlocks the property for the character.The properties are defined below.
CLEAVE
If you hit a creature witha melee attack roll using this weapon, you can make a melee attack roll with the weapon against a second creature within 5 feet of the first that is also within your reach. On a hit, the second creature takes the weapon's damage, but don't add your ability modifier to that damage unless that modifier is negative. You can make this extra attack only once per turn.
GRAZE
If your attack roll with this weapon misses a crea· ture, you can deal damage to that creature equal to the ability modifier you used to make the attack roll. This damage is the same type dealt by the weapon, and the damage can be increased only by increasing the ability modifier.
NICK
When you make the extra attack of the Light prop-erty, you can make it as part of the Attack action in-stead of as a Bonus Action. You can make this extra attack only once per turn.
PUSH
If you hit a creature with this weapon, you can push the creature up to 10 feet straight away from your-self if it is Large or smaller.
SAP
If you hit a creature with this weapon, that creature has Disadvantage on its next attack roll before the start of your next turn.
SLOW
If you hit a creature with this weapon and deal damage to it, you can reduce its Speed by10 feet un· ti! the start of your next turn. [f the creature is hit more than once by weapons that have this property. the Speed reduction doesn't exceed 10 feet.
TOPPLE
If you hit a creature with this weapon, you can force the creature to make a Constitution saving throw (DC 8 plus the ability modifier used to make the attack roll and your Proficiency Bonus). On a failed save, the creature has the Prone condition.
VEX
If you hit a creature with this weapon and deal damage to the creature, you have Advantage on your next attack roll against that creature before the end of your next turn.


214-	CHAPTER 6 I EQUIPMENT
WEAPONS
Name	Damage	Properties	Mastery Weight	Cost
Simple Me/ee Weapons

Club	ld4 Bludgeoning	Light	Slow	2 lb.	1 SP
Dagger	ld4 Piercing	Finesse, Light,Thrown (Range 20/60)	Nick	1 lb.	2 GP
Greatclub	1d8 Bludgeoning	Two-Handed	Push	10 lb.	2 SP
Handaxe	ld6 Slashing	Light, Thrown (Range 20/60)	Vex	2 lb.	5 GP
Javelin	ld6 Piercing	Thrown (Range 30/120)	Slow	2 lb.	5 SP
Light Hammer	ld4 Bludgeoning	Light, Thrown (Range 20/60)	Nick	2 lb.	2 GP
Mace	ld6 Bludgeoning		Sap	4 lb.	5 GP
Quarterstaff	ld6 Bludgeoning	Versatile (l d8)	Topple	4 lb.	2 SP
Sickle	1d4 Slashing	Light	Nick	2 lb.	1 GP
Spear	1d6 Piercing	Thrown (Range 20/60), Versatile (1d8)	Sap	3 lb.	1 GP
Simple Ranged Weapons
Dart	1d4 Piercing	Finesse, Thrown (Range 20/60)	Vex	1/4 lb.	5 CP
Light Crossbow	1d8 Piercing	Ammunition (Range 80/320; Bolt), Loading, Two-Handed	Slow	5 lb.	25GP
Shortbow	1d6 Piercing	Ammunition (Range 80/320; Arrow), Two-Handed	Vex	2 lb.	25GP
Sling	1d4 Bludgeoning	Ammunition (Range 30/120; Bullet)	Slow		1 SP
Martial Melee Weapons
Battleaxe	ld8 Slashing	Versatile (1dl 0)	Topple	4 lb.	10 GP
Flail	1d8 Bludgeoning		Sap	2 lb.	10 GP
Glaive	1d10 Slashing	Heavy, Reach, Two-Handed	Graze	6 lb.	20GP
Greataxe	1d12 Slashing	Heavy, Two-Handed	Cleave	7 lb.	30GP
Greatsword	2d6 Slashing	Heavy, Two-Handed	Graze	6 lb.	50GP
Halberd	ldl0 Slashing	Heavy, Reach, Two-Handed	Cleave	6 lb.	20GP
Lance	ldl0 Piercing	Heavy, Reach, Two-Handed (unless mounted)	Topple	6 lb.	10 GP
Longsword	1d8 Slashing	Versatile (1d10)	Sap	3 lb.	15 GP
Maul	2d6 Bludgeoning	Heavy, Two-Handed	Topple	10 lb.	l0GP
Morningstar	1d8 Piercing		Sap	4 lb.	15 GP
Pike	1d10 Piercing	Heavy, Reach, Two-Handed	Push	18 lb.	5 GP
Rapier	1d8 Piercing	Finesse	Vex	2 lb.	25 GP
Scimitar	1d6 Slashing	Finesse, Light	Nick	3 lb.	25 GP
Shortsword	1d6 Piercing	Finesse, Light	Vex	2 lb.	10 GP
Trident	1d8 Piercing	Thrown (Range 20/60), Versatile (ldl0)	Topple	4 lb.	5 GP
Warhammer	1d8 Bludgeoning	Versatile (ldl0)	Push	5 lb.	15 GP
War Pick	1d8 Piercing	Versatile (1d10)	Sap	2 lb.	5 GP
Whip	1d4 Slashing	Finesse, Reach	Slow	3 lb.	2 GP
Martial Ranged Weapons
Blowgun	1 Piercing	Ammunition (Range 25/100; Needle), Loading	Vex		1 lb. 10 GP Hand Crossbow 1d6 Piercing   Ammunition (Range 30/120; Bolt), Light, Loading  Vex		 3 lb. 75 GP Heavy Crossbow 1d10 Piercing   Ammunition (Range 100/400; Bolt), Heavy, Load-  Push	18 lb.  S0GP
ing, Two-Handed
Longbow	1d8 Piercing   Ammunition (Range 150/600; Arrow), Heavy,	Slow	2 lb.  S0GP
Two-Handed
Musket	1dl 2 Piercing	Ammunition (Range 40/120; Bullet), Loading,	Slow	10 lb.  500 GP
Two-Handed
Pistol	ldl0 Piercing	Ammunition (Range 30/90; Bullet), Loading	Vex	3 lb. 250GP
215
WEAPONS


SIMPLE MELEE WEAPONS










CL\11
1SP










SIMPLE RANGED WEAPONS




216	CHAPTER 6 I EQUIPMENT



MARTIAL MELEE WEAPONS





MAUL	I
i 10GP
I		 5MOOTSWOOO	MoANUHiSTAR
,sGP


RAPlflt
>SGP


HA\.8ŁRO
lo GP
Po,Ł
sGP
SCIMITAR
25GP


















GIU!ATSWOA:O
50GP







TRIOENT
5GP





MARTIAL RANGED WEAPONS


NANO CROSHOW
15GP










2 T	3 -	E

, PISTOL
250GP

LoNGeow
soGP

CHAPTER 6 ( EQUIPMENT	217
ARMOR
LIGHT ARMOR	SHIELDS

















PAODEO ARMQq
5GP



















LEATHER ARMOR 10GP

















STuooeo LŁAT?ER
AA:MO'l
45GP


MEDIUM ARMOR

Sc,u.E ?"''-
soGP














Ho&.L, P\..ATf
ARMOR
JS• GP

CHA1N SHIRT
50GP



6A.EASTP\.AfŁ
4-ooGP



HEAVY ARMOR

















218	CHAPTER 6 I EQUIPMENT



P1.ATI[ AA.MOR
,.500 GP

















SPLINT ARMOR
200GP
ARMOR
Armor	Armor Class (AC)
Light Armor (1 Minute to Don or Doff)

Strength

Stealth	Weight	Cost
Padded Armor Leather Armor
Studded Leather Armor
11 + Dex modifier
11 + Dex modifier
12 + Dex modifier
Disadvantage	8 lb.	5 GP
10 lb.	10 GP
13 lb.	45 GP
Medium Armor (S Minutes to Don and 1 Minute to Doff)

Hide Armor	12 + Dex modifier (max 2)			12 lb.	10 GP
Chain Shirt
Scale Mail	13 + Dex modifier (max 2)
14 + Dex modifier (max 2)		
Disadvantage	20 lb.
45 lb.	50GP
SO GP
Breastplate	14 + Dex modifier (max 2)			20 lb.	400GP
Half Plate Armor	15 + Dex modifier (max 2)		Disadvantage	40 lb.	750GP
Heavy Armor (10 Minutes lo	Don and S Minutes to Doff)				
Ring Mail	14		Disadvantage	40 lb.	30GP
Chain Mail	16	Str 13	Disadvantage	55 lb.	75 GP
Splint Armor	17	Str 15	Disadvantage	60 lb.	200GP
Plate Armor	18	Str 15	Disadvantage	65 lb.	1,500 GP
Shield					
Shield	+2	6 lb.	10 GP

ARMOR
The Armor table lists the game's main armor. The table includes the cost and weight of armor. as well as the following details:
Category. Every type of armor falls into a category: Light, Medium, or Heavy. Tbe category deter· mines how long it takes to don or doff the armor (as shown in the table).
Armor Class (AC). The table's Armor Class column tells you what your base AC is when you wear a type of armor. For example, if you wear Leather Armor, your base AC is JI plus your Dexterity modifier, whereas your AC is 16 in Chain Mail.
Strength. If the table shows a Strength score in the Strength column for an armor type, that armor reduces the wearers speed by 10 feet unless the wearer has a Strength score equal to or higher than the listed score.
Stealth. If the table shows "Disadvantage" in the Stealth column for an armor type, the wearer has Disadvantage on Dexterity (Stealth) checks.
ARMOR TRAINING
Anyone can don armor or hold a Shield, but only those with training can use them effectively. as ex· plained below. A character's class and other features determine the character's armor training. Amon-ster has training with any armor in its stat block.
LIGHT, MEDIUM, OR HEAVY ARMOR
If you wear Light, Medium, or Heavy armor and lack training with it, you have Disadvantage on any D20 Test that involves Strength or Dexterity, and you can't cast spells.
SHIELD
You gain the Armor Class benefit of a Shield only if you have training with it.
ONE	ATA	TIME
A creature can wear only one suit of armor at a time and wield only one Shield at a time.

VARIANT: EQUIPMENT SIZES
In most campaigns. you can use or wear any equipment that you find on your adventures, within the bounds of common sense. For ex-ample, an ore adventurer won't fit in a halfling's Leather Armor, and a cloud giant's robe would be far too large for a gnome.
The DM can impose more realism. For example, a suit of Plate Armor made for one human might not fit another one without significant alterations, and a guard's uniform might be visibly ill-fitting when an adventurer tries to wear it as a disguise.
Using this variant, when adventurers find ar-mor, clothing, and similar items that are made to be worn, they might need to visit a smith, a tailor, a leatherworker, or a similar expert to make the item wearable. The cost for such work is 1d4 x 10 percent of the market price of the item.
CHAPTER 6 I EQUIPMENT	219

TOOLS
A tool helps you make specialized ability checks, craft certain items, or both. A tool's description includes the tool's cost and weight, as well as the following entries:
Ability. This entry lists the ability to use when making an ability check with the tool.
Utilize. This entry lists things you can do with the tool when you take the Utilize action. You can do one of tbose things each time you take the action. This entry also provides the DC for the action.
Craft.This entry lists what, if anything, you can craft with the tool. For crafting rules, see "Craft-ing Equipment" later in the chapter.
Varia.nts. This entry appears if the tool has vari-ants, which are listed. Each requires a separate proficiency.
TOOL PROFICIENCY
If you have proficiency with a tool, add your Pro-ficiency Bonus to any ability check you make that uses the tool. If you have proficiency in a skill that's used with that check, you have Advantage on the check too.
Your features might give you proficiency with a tool. A monster has proficiency with any tool in its stat block.
ARTISAN'S TOOLS
Artisan's Tools are each focused on crafting items and pursuing a trade. Each of these tools requires a separate proficiency.

ALCHEMIST'S SUPPLIES (50 GP)
Ability: Intelligence	Weight: 8 lb.
Utilize: Identify a substance (DC 15), or start a fire (DC 15)
Craft: Acid, Alchemist's Fire, Component Pouch, Oil, Paper, Perfume

BREWER'S SUPPLIES (20 GP)
Ability: Intelligence	Weight: 9 lb.
Utilize: Detect poisoned drink (DC 15), or identify al• cohol (DC 10)
Craft: Antitoxin

CALL!ORAPHER'S SUPPLfES (10 GP)
Ability: Dexterity	Weight: 5 lb.
Utilize: Write text with impressive flourishes that guard against forgery (DC 15)
Craft: Ink, Spell Scroll


CARPENTER'S TOOLS (8 GP)
Ability: Strength	Weight: 6 lb.
Utilize: Seal or pryopen a door or container (DC 20)
Craft: Club, Greatclub, Quarterstaff, Barrel, Chest, Ladder, Pole, Portable Ram, Torch

CARTOGRAPHER'S TOOLS (15 GP)
Ability: Wisdom	Weight: 6 lb. Utilize: Draft a map of a small area (DC 15) Craft: Map

COBBLER'S TOOLS (5 GP)
Ability: Dexterity	Weight: 5 lb.
Utilize: Modify footwear to give Advantage on the wearer's next Dexterity (Acrobatics) check (DC 10)
Craft: Climber's Kit

COOK'S UTENSILS (I GP)
Ability: Wisdom	Weight: 8 lb.
Utilize: Improve food's flavor (DC 10), or detect spoiled or poisoned food (DC 15)
Craft: Rations

CLASSBLOWER'S TOOLS (30 GP)
Ability: Intelligence	Weight: 5 lb.
Utilize: Discern what a glass object held in the past 24 hours (DC 15)
Craft: Glass Bottle, Magnifying Glass, Spyglass, Vial

JEWELER'S TOOLS (25 GP)
Ability: Intelligence	Weight: 2 lb. Utilize: Discern a gem's value (DC 15) Craft: Arcane Focus, Holy Symbol

LEATHERWORKER'S TOOLS (5 GP)
Ability: Dexterity	Weight: 5 lb. Utilize: Add a design to a leather item (DC 10)
Craft: Sling, Whip, Hide Armor, Leather Armor, Stud-
ded Leather Armor, Backpack, Crossbow Bolt Case,	•
Map or Scroll Case, Parchment, Pouch, Quiver, Wa-terskin


220	CHAPTER 6 I EQUIPMENT

MASON'S TOOLS (IO GP)
Ability: Strength	Weight: 8 lb.
Utilize: Chisel a symbol or hole in stone (DC 10) Craft: Block and Tackle


PAINTER'S SUPPLIES (10 GP)
Ability: Wisdom	Weight: S lb.
Utilize: Paint a recognizable image of something you've seen (DC 10)
Craft: Druidic Focus, Holy Symbol


POTTER'S TOOLS (IO GP)
Ability: Intelligence	Weight: 3 lb.
Utilize: Discern what a ceramic object held in the past 24 hours (DC 15)
Craft: Jug, Lamp


SMITH'S TOOLS (20 GP)
Ability: Strength	Weight: 8 lb. Utilize: Pry open a door or container (DC 20)
Craft: Any Melee weapon (except Club, Greatclub, Quarterstaff, and Whip), Medium armor (except Hide), Heavy armor, Ball Bearings, Bucket, Caltrops, Chain, Crowbar, Firearm Bullets, Grappling Hook, Iron Pot, Iron Spikes, Sling Bullets

TINKER'S TOOLS (50 GP)
Ability: Dexterity	Weight: 10 lb.
Utilize: Assemble a Tiny item composed of scrap, which falls apart in 1 minute (DC 20)
Craft: Musket, Pistol, Bell, Bullseye Lantern, Flask, Hooded Lantern, Hunting Trap, Lock, Manacles, Mirror, Shovel, Signal Whistle, Tinderbox


WEAVER'S TOOLS (I GP)
Ability: Dexterity	Weight: 5 lb.
Utilize: Mend a tear in clothing (DC10), or sew a Tiny design (DC 10)
Craft: Padded Armor, Basket, Bedroll, Blanket, Fine Clothes, Net,Robe, Rope, Sack, String, Tent, Travel-er's Clothes


WoooCARVER'S TOOLS (I GP)
Ability: Dexterity	Weight: 5 lb. Utilize: Carve a pattern in wood (DC 10)
Craft: Club, Greatclub, Quarterstaff, Ranged weapons (except Pistol, Musket, and Sling), Arcane Focus, Ar-rows, Bolts, Druidic Focus, Ink Pen, Needles
OTHER TOOLS
These tools support adventure and other pursuits.

DISGUISE KlT (25 GP)
Ability: Charisma	Weight: 3 lb. Utilize: Apply makeup (DC 10)
Craft: Costume


FORGERY KIT (15 GP)
Ability: Dexterity	Weight: 5 lb.
Utilize: Mimic 10 or fewer words of someone else's handwriting (DC15), or duplicate a wax seal (DC 20)


GAMING SET (VARrES)
Ability: Wisdom	Weight: -
Utilize: Discern whether someone is cheating (DC 10), or win the game (DC 20)
Variants: Dice (1 SP), dragonchess (1 GP), playing
cards (5 SP), three-dragon ante (1 GP)


HERBALISM KIT (5 GP)
Ability: Intelligence	Weight: 3 lb. Utilize: Identify a plant (DC 10)
Craft: Antitoxin, Candle, Healer's Kit, Potion of Healing


MUSICAL INSTRUMENT (VARIES)
Ability: Charisma	Weight: Varies
Utilize: Play a known tune (DC 10). or improvise a song (DC 15)
Variants: Bagpipes (30 GP, 6 lb.), drum (6 GP, 3 lb.),
dulcimer (25 GP, 10 lb.), flute (2 GP, 1 lb.), horn (3
GP, 2 lb.), lute (35 GP, 2lb.), lyre (30 GP, 2 lb.), pan
flute (12 GP, 2 lb.), shawm (2 GP, 1 lb.), viol (30 GP,
1 lb.)


NAVIGATOR'S TOOLS (25 GP)
Ability: Wisdom	Weight: 2 lb.
Utilize: Plot a course (DC 10), or determine position by stargazing (DC15)

POISONER'S KIT (50 GP)
Ability: Intelligence	Weight: 2 lb. Utilize: Detect a poisoned object (DC 10) Craft: Basic Poison

THIEVES' TOOLS (25 GP)
Ability: Dexterity	Weight: 1 lb.
Utilize: Pick a lock (DC 15), or disarm a trap (DC 15)
CHAPTER 6 I EQ.UIPMENT	221























ADVENTURING GEAR
Tbe Adventuring Gear table in thissection includes gear that adventurers oA:en find useful. These items are described here in alphabetical order, with an item's price appearing aA:er its name.

Acio (25 GP)
When you take the Attack action, you can replace one of your attacks with throwing a vial of Acid. Target one creature or object you can see within 20 feet of yourself. The target must succeed on a Dexterity saving throw (DC 8 plus your Dexterity modifier and Proficiency Bonus) or take 2d6 Acid damage.

ALCHEMIST'S FIRE (50 GP)
When you take the Attack action, you can replace one of your attacks with throwing a flask of Alche· mist's Fire. Target one creature or object you can see within 20 feet of yourself. The target must sue· ceed on a Dexterity saving throw (DC 8 plus your Dexterity modifier and Proficiency Bonus) or take ld4 Fire damage and start burning (see the rules glossary).




































AMMUNITION (VARIES)
Ammunition is required by a weapon that has the Ammunition property. A weapon's description spec· ilies the type of ammunition used by the weapon.
The Ammunition table lists the different types and the amount you get when you buy them.The table also lists the item that is typically used to store each type; storage must be bought separately.

AMMUNITION
Type	Amount Storage Weight  Cost
Arrows	20   Quiver   1 lb.  1 GP
Bolts	 20 Case 1˝ lb. 1 GP Bullets, Firearm  10  Pouch  2 lb. 3GP Bullets, Sling	 20 Pouch 1˝ lb. 4 CP Needles	50   Pouch   1 lb.  1 GP

ANTITOXIN (50 GP)
As a Bonus Action, you can drink a vial of Antitoxin to gafo Advantage on saving throws to avoid or end the Poisoned condition for I hour.
II




222	CHAPTER 6 I EQUIPMENT
ADVENTURINC GEAR

Item	Weight	Cost	Item	Weight	Cost
Acid	1 lb.	25 GP	Ink Pen		2CP
Alchemist's Fire	1 lb.	SOGP	Jug	4 lb.	2CP
Ammunition	Varies	Varies	Ladder	25 lb.	1 SP
Antitoxin		SO GP	Lamp	1 lb.	5 SP
Arcane Focus	Varies	Varies	Lantern, Bullseye	2 lb.	10 GP
Backpack	S lb.	2GP	Lantern, Hooded	2 lb.	S GP
Ball Bearings	2 lb.	1 GP	Lock	1 lb.	10 GP
Barrel	70 lb.	2 GP	Magnifying Glass		100 GP
Basket	2 lb.	4 SP	Manacles	6 lb.	2GP
Bedroll	7 lb.	1 GP	Map		1 GP
Bell		1 GP	Mirror	1/2 lb.	S GP
Blanket	3 lb.	S SP	Net	3 lb.	1 GP
Block and Tackle	5 lb.	1 GP	Oil	1 lb.	1 SP
Book	5 lb.	25 GP	Paper		2 SP
Bottle, Glass	2 lb.	2GP	Parchment		1 SP
Bucket	2 lb.	5 CP	Perfume		S GP
Burglar's Pack	42 lb.	16 GP	Poison, Basic		100 GP
Caltrops	2 lb.	1 GP	Pole	7 lb.	5 CP
Candle		1 CP	Pot, Iron	10 lb.	2 GP
Case, Crossbow Bolt	1 lb.	1 GP	Potion of Healing	1/2 lb.	S0GP
Case, Map or Scroll	1 lb.	1 GP	Pouch	1 lb.	S SP
Chain	10 lb.	SCP	Priest's Pack	29 lb.	33GP
Chest	25 lb.	SCP	Quiver	1 lb.	1 GP
Climber's Kit	12 lb.	25 GP	Ram, Portable	35 lb.	4GP
Clothes, Fine	6 lb.	15 GP	Rations	2 lb.	5 SP
Clothes, Traveler's	4 lb.	2GP	Robe	4 lb.	1 GP
Component Pouch	2 lb.	25 GP	Rope	5 lb.	1 GP
Costume	4 lb.	SCP	Sack	1/2 lb.	1 CP
Crowbar	S lb.	2GP	Scholar's Pack	22 lb.	40GP
Diplomat's Pack	39 lb.	39 GP	Shovel	5 lb.	2GP
Druidic Focus	Varies	Varies	Signal Whistle		SCP
Dungeoneer's Pack	55 lb.	12 GP	Spell Scroll (Cantrip)		30 GP
Entertainer's Pack	58th lb.	40GP	Spell Scroll (Level 1)		SO GP
Explorer's Pack	55 lb.	10 GP	Spikes, Iron	S lb.	1 GP
Flask	1 lb.	2CP	Spyglass	1 lb.	1,000 GP
Grappling Hook
Healer's Kit	4 lb.
3 lb.	2 GP
S GP	String
Tent	
20 lb.	1 SP
2GP
Holy Symbol	Varies	Varies	Tinderbox	1 lb.	5 SP
Holy Water	1 lb.	25 GP	Torch	1 lb.	1 CP
Hunting Trap	25 lb.	5 GP	Vial		1 GP
Ink		10 GP	Waterskin	5 lb. (full)	2 SP





CHAPTER 6 I EQ.UIPMENT	223
ARCANE Focus (VARIES)
An Arcane Focus takes one of the forms in the Arcane Focuses table and is bejeweled or carved to channel arcane magic. A Sorcerer, Warlock, or Wiz• ard can usesuch an item as a Spellcasting Focus.

ARCANE FOCUSES

Focus	Weight	Cost
Crystal	1 lb.	10 GP
Orb	3 lb.	20GP
Rod	2 lb.	l0GP
Staff (also a Quarterstaff)	4 lb.	5 GP
Wand	1 lb.	l0GP



BACKPACK (2 GP)
A Backpack holds up to 30 pounds within l cubic foot. It can alsoserve as a saddlebag.

BALL BEARINGS (I GP)
As a Utilize action, you can spill Ball Bearings from their pouch. Theyspread to cover a level,10-foot-square area within 10 feet of yourself. A creature that enters thisarea for the first time on a turn must succeed on a DC 10 Dexterity saving throw or have the Prone condition. It takes 10 minutes to recover the BaJJ 'Bearings.

BARREL (2 GP)
A Barrel holds up to 40 gallons of liquid or up to 4 cubic feet of dry goods.

BASKET (4 SP)
A Basket holds up to 40 pounds within 2 cubic feet.

B.l!DROLL (1 GP)
A Bedroll sleeps one Small or Medium creature. While in a Bedroll, you automatically succeed on saving throws against extreme cold (see the Dun-geon Master's Guide).

BELL (l GP)
When rung as a Utilize action, a Bell produces a sound that can be heard up to 60 feet away.

BLANKET (5 SP)
While wrapped in a blanket, you have Advantage
on saving throws against extreme cold (see the Dun-
geon Master's Guide).
BLOCX AND TACKLE (I GP)
A Block and Tackle allows you to hoist up to four times the weight you can normally liA:.

BooK (25 GP)
A Book contains fiction or nonflction. If you consult an accurate nonlktion Book about its topic. you gain a •S bonus to Intelligence (Arcana, History, Na-ture, or Religion) checks you make about that topic.

BOTTLE, GLASS (2 GP)
A Glass Bottle holds up to I˝ pints.

BUCKET (5 CP)
A Bucket holds up to half a cubic foot of contents.

BURGLAR'S PACK (16 GP)
A Burglar's Pack contains the following items: Backpack, Ball Bearings, Bell,10 Candles, Crowbar, Hooded Lantern, 7 flasks of Oil, 5 days of Rations, Rope, Tinderbox, and Waterskin.


CALTROPS (1 GP)
As a Utilize action, you can spread Caltrops from their bag to cover a 5-foot·square area within 5 feet of yourself. A creature that enters this area for the first time on a tum must succeed on a DC 15 Dexterity saving throw or take I Piercing damage and have its Speed reduced to 0 until the start of its next turn.It takes 10 minutes to recover the Caltrops.

CANDLE (I CP)
For l hour, a lit Candle sheds Bright Light in a S•foot radius and Dim Light for an additional 5 feet.

CASE, CROSSBOW BOLT (I GP)
A Crossbow Bolt Case holds up to 20 Bolts.

CASE, MAP OR SCROLL (I GP)
A Map or Scroll Case holds up to 10 sheets of paper or 5 sheets of parchment.

CRAIN (5 GP)
As a Utilize action, you can wrap a Chain around an unwilling creature within 5 feet of yourself that has the Grappled, Incapacitated, or Restrained condi· tion if you succeed on a DC 13Strength (Athletics)

224	CHAPTER 6 I EQUIPMENT
check. ff the creature's legs are bound, the creature has the Restrained condition until it escapes. Es· caping the Chain requires the creature to make a successful DC 18 Dexterity (Acrobatics) check as an action. Bursting the Chain requires a successful DC 20 Strength (Athletics) checkas an action.

CHEST (5 GP)
A Chest holds up to 12 cubic feet of contents.

CLJMBER'S KIT  (25 GP)
A Climber's Kit includes boot tips, gloves, pitons, and a harness. As a Utilize action, you can use the Climber's KJt to anchor yourself; when you do, you can't fall more than 25 feet from the anchor point, and you can't move more than 25 feet from there without undoing the anchor as a Bonus Action.

CLOTHES, FINE (15 GP)
Fine Clothes are made of expensive fabrics and adorned with expertly crafted details.Some events and locations admit only people wearing these clothes.

CLOTHES, TRAVELER'S (2 GP)
Traveler's Clothes are resilient garments designed for travel in various environments.

COMPONENT POUCH (25 GP)
A Component Pouch is watertight and filled with compartments that hold all the free Material com· ponents of your spells.

COSTUME (5 GP)
While wearing a Costume, you have Advantage on anyabilitycheck you make to impersonate the per-son or type of person it represents.

CROWBAR (2 GP)
Usinga Crowbar gives you Advantage on Strength checks where the Crowbar's leverage can be applied.

DIPLOMAT'S PACK (39 GP)
A Diplomat's Pack contains the following items: Chest, Fine Clothes, Ink, S Lnk Pens, Lamp, 2 Map or Scroll Cases, 4 flasks of Oil, 5 sheets of Paper, 5 sheets of Parchment, Perfume, and Tinderbox.

DRUfDIC Focus (VARlES)
A Druidic Focus takes one of the forms in the Dru· idie Focuses table and is carved, tied with ribbon. or painted to channel primal magic. A Druid or Ranger can use such an object as a Spellcasting Focus.

DRUIDIC FOCUSES

Focus
Sprig of mistletoe
Wooden staff (also a Quarterstaff)	Weight

4 lb.	Cost
l GP 5 GP
Yew wand	l lb.	10 GP


DuNCEONEER'S PACK (12 GP)
A Dungeoneer's Pack contains the following items: Backpack, Caltrops, Crowbar, 2 flasks of Oil, 10 days of Rations, Rope,Tinderbox, 10 Torches, and Waterskin.

ENTERTAINER'S PACK (40 GP)
An Entertainer's Pack contains the following items: Backpack, Bedroll, Bell, Bullseye Lantern, 3 Cos-tumes, Mirror, 8 flasks of Oil, 9 days of Rations, Tinderbox, and Waterskin.

EXPLORER'S PACK (JO GP)
An Explorer's Pack contains the following items: Backpack. Bedroll. 2 flasks of Oil, 10 days of Ra-tions, Rope, Tinderbox,10Torches, and Waterskin.

FLASK (2 CP)
A Flask holds up to I pint.

GRAPPLING HOOK (2 GP)
As a Utilize action, you can throw the Grappling Hook at a railing, a ledge, or another catch within 50 feet of yourself, and the hook catches on if you succeed on a DC 13 Dexterity (Acrobatics) check. If you tied a Rope to the hook, you can then climb it.

HEALER'S KIT (5 GP)
A Healer's Kit has ten uses. As a Utilize action, you can expend one of its uses to stabilize an Uncon-scious creature that has O Hit Points without need· ing to make a Wisdom (Medicine) check.







CHAPTER 6 J EQUIPMENT	225
HOLY SYMBOL (VARIES)
A Holy Symbol takes one of the forms in the Holy Symbol table aad is bejeweled or painted to channel divine magic. ACleric or Paladin can use a Holy Symbol as a Spellcasting Focus.
The table indicates whether a Holy Symbol needs to be held, worn, or borne on fabric (such as a tab-ard or banner) or a Shield.

HOLY SYMBOLS
Jue (2 CP)
AJugholds up to I gallon.


LADDER (l SP)
A Ladder is 10 feet tall. You must climb to move up or down it.

LAMP (5SP)
Symbol
Amulet (worn or held)
Emblem (borne on fabric or a Shield) Reliquary (held)

HOLY WATER (25 GP)
Weight Cost
l lb. 5 GP
SGP 2 lb. 5 GP
A Lamp burns Oil as fuel to cast Bright Light in a IS-foot radius and Dim Light for an additional 30 feet.

LANTERN, BULLSEYE (IO GP)
A Bullseye Lantern burns Oil as fuel to cast Bright Light in a 60-foot Cone and Dim Light for an addi-
When you take the Attack action, you can replace one of your attacks with throwing a flask of Holy Water.Target one creature you can see within 20 feet of yourself. The target must succeed on a Dex-teritysaving throw (DC 8 plus your Dexterity mod-ifier and Proficiency Bonus) or take 2d8 Radiant damage ifit isa Fiend or an Undead.

HUNTING TRAP (5 GP)
As a Utilize action, you can set a Hunting Trap, which is a sawtooth steel ring that snapsshut when a creature steps on a pressure plate in the center. The trap is affixed by a heavy chain to an immo-bile object, such as a tree or a spike driven into the ground. A creature that steps on the plate must succeed on a DC13 Dexterity saving throw or take 1d4 Piercing damage and have its Speed reduced to 0 until tbe start of its next turn. Thereafter, until the creature breaks free of the trap, its movement is limited by the length of the chain (typically 3 feet). A creature can use its action to make a DC
13 Strength (Athletics) check, Freeing itself or an-other creature within its reach on a success. Each failed check deals I Piercing damage to the trapped creature.

INK  (JO GP)
Ink comes in al-ounce bottle, which provides enough ink to write about 500 pages.

INK  PEN (2 CP)
Using Ink. an Ink Pen is used to write or draw.
tional 60 feet.

LANTERN, HOODED (5 GP)
A Hooded Lantern burns Oil as fuel to cast Bright Light in a 30-foot radius and Dim Light for an ad-ditional 30 feet. As a Bonus Action, you can lower the hood, reducing the light to Dim Light in a 5-foot radius, or raise it again.

LOCK (IO GP)
A Lock comes with a key. Without the key, a crea-ture can use Thieves' Tools to pick this Lock with a successful DC15 Dexterity (Sleight of Hand) check.

MAONIFYINO GLASS (JOO GP)
A Magnifying Glass grants Advantage on any abil-ity check made to appraise or inspect a highly de-tailed item. Lighting a fire with a Magnifying Glass requires light as bright as sunlight to focus, tinder to ignite, and about 5 minutes for the fire to ignite.

MANACLES (2 GP)
As a Utilize action. you can use Manacles to bind an unwillingSmall or Medium creature within 5 feet of yourself that has the Grappled, Incapacitated,
or Restrained condition if you succeed on a DC 13 Dexterity (Sleight of Hand) check. While bound, a creature has Disadvantage on attack rolls, and the creature is Restrained if the Manacles are attached to a chain or hook that is fixed in place. Escaping the Manacles requires a successful DC 20 Dexterity (Sleight of Hand) check as an action. Bursting them requires a successful DC 25 Strength (Athletics) check as an action.



226	CHAPTER 6 I EQUIPMENT

Each set of Manacles comes with a key. Without the key, a creature can use Thieves' Tools to pick the Manacles' lock witha successful DC15 Dexter-ity (Sleight of Hand) check.

MAP (1 GP)
If you consult an accurate Map, you gain a +S bonus to Wisdom (Survival} checks you make to find your way in the place represented on it.

MIRROR (5 GP)
A bandheld steel Mirror is useful for personal cos-metics but also for peeking around corners and re• flecting light as a signal.

NET (I GP)
When you take the Attack action, you can replace one of your attacks with throwing a Net. Target a creature you can see within 15 feet of yourself. The target must succeed on a Dexterity saving throw (DC 8 plus your Dexterity modifier and Proficiency Bonus) or have the Restrained condition until it escapes. The target succeeds automatically if it is Huge or larger.
To escape, the target or a creature within 5 feet of it must take an action to make a DC JO Strength (Athletics) check, freeing the Restrained creature on a success. Destroying the Net (AC JO; 5 HP; Im· munity to Bludgeoning, Poison, and Psychic dam-age) also frees the target, ending the effect.

OIL  (1 SP)
You can douse a creature,object, or space with Oil or use it as fuel, as detailed below.
Dousing a Creature or an Object. When you take the Attack action, you can replace one of your at· tacks with throwing an Oil flask.Target one crea· ture or object within 20 feet of yourself. The target must succeed on a Dexterity saving throw (DC 8 plus your Dexterity modifier and Proficiency Bonus) or be covered in oil. If the target takes Pire damage before the oil dries (after 1 minute), the target takes an extra 5 Fire damage from burning oil.
Dousing a Space. You can take the Utilize action to pour an Oil flask on level ground to cover a 5-foot-square area within 5 feet of yourself. If lit, the oil burns until the end of the turn 2 rounds from when the oil was lit (or 12 seconds) and deals 5 Pire dam• age to any creature that enters the area or ends its
?	turn there. A creature can take this damage only
2	once per turn.
II		Fuel. Oil serves as fuel for Lamps and Lanterns. Once lit, a flask of Oil burns for 6 hours in a Lamp








or Lantern. That duration doesn't need to be con· secutive; you can extinguish the burning Oil (as a Utilize action) and rekindle it again until it has burned for a total of 6 hours.

PAPER (2 SP)
One sheet of Paper can hold about 250 handwritten words.

PARCHMENT (I SP)
One sheet of Parchment can hold about 250 hand• written words.

PERFUME (5 GP)
Perfume comes in a 4-ounce vial. Por 1 hour aA:er applying Perfume to yourself, you have Advantage on Charisma (Persuasion) checks made to influence an Indifferent Humanoid within 5 feet of yourself.

POISON, BASIC (100 GP)
As a Bonus Action, you can use a vial of Basic Poi· son to coat one weapon or up to three pieces of am• munition. A creature that takes Piercing or Slashing damage from the poisoned weapon or ammunition takes an extra ld4 Poison damage. Once applied. the poison retains potency for I minute or until its dam-age is dealt, whichever comes first.
CHAPTER 6 I EQUIPMENT	227
POLE (5 CP)
A Pole is IO feet long. You can use it to touch something up to 10 feet away. If you must make a Strength (Athletics) check as part of a High or Long Jump, you can use the Pole to vault, giving yourself Advantage on the check.

POT, IRON (2 GP)
An Iron Pot holds up to I gallon.

POTJON OF HEALING (50 GP)
This potion is a magic item. As a Bonus Action, you can drink it or administer it to another creature within 5 feet of yourself. The creature that drinks the magical red fluid in this vial regains 2d4 + 2 Hit Points.

POUCH (5 SP)
A Pouch holds up to 6 pounds within one-fiA:h of a cubic foot.

PRIEST'S PACK (33 GP)
A Priest's Pack contains the following items: Back-pack, Blanket, Holy Water, Lamp, 7 days of Rations, Robe. and Tinderbox.

QUIVER (1GP)
A Quiver holds up to 20 Arrows.

RAM, PORTABLE (4 GP)
You can use a Portable Ram to break down doors. When doingso, you gain a +4 bonus to the Strength check. One other character can help you use the ram, giving you Advantage on this check.

RATIONS (5 SP)
Rations consist of travel-ready food, includingjerky, dried fruit, hardtack, and nuts. See "Malnutrition" in the rulesglossary for the risks of not eating.

ROBE (I GP)
A Robe has vocational or ceremonial significance. Some events and locations admit only people wear-ing a Robe bearingcertain colors or symbols.
ROPE (1 GP)
As a Utili1Je action, you can tie a knot with Rope if you succeed on a DC JO Dexterity (Sleight of Hand) check. The Rope can be burst with a successful DC 20 Strength (Athletics) check.
You can bind an unwilling creature with the Rope only if the creature has the Grappled, Incapacitated, or Restrained condition. If the creature's legs are bound, the creature has the Restrained condition until it escapes. Escaping the Rope requires the creature to make a successful DC15 Dexterity (Ac· robatics) check as an action.

SACK (l CP)
A Sack holds up to 30 pounds within I cubic foot.

SCHOLAR'S PACK (40 GP)
A Scholar's Pack contains the following items: Back· pack, Book, Ink, Ink Pen, Lamp, 10 flasks of Oil, JO sheets of Parchment, and Tinderbox.

SHOVEL (2 GP)
Working for 1 hour, you can use a Shovel to dig a hole that is S feet on each side in soil or similar material.

SIGNALW1-r1STLE (5 CP)
When blown as a Utilize action, a Signal Whistle produces a sound that can be heard up to 600 feet away.

SPELL SCROLL (CANTRlP, 30 GP; LEVEL I, 50 GP)
A Spell Scroll (Cantrip) or Spell Scroll (Level I) is a magic item that bears the words of a cantrip or level I spell. respectively, determined by the scroll's cre-ator. If the spell is on your class's spell list, you can read the scroll and cast the spell using its normaI c.asting time and without providing any Material components.
If the spell requires a saving throw or an attack roll, the spell save DC is 13. and the attack bonus is +5. The scroll disintegrates when the casting is completed.

SPIKES, IRON (I GP)
Iron Spikes come in bundles of ten. As a Utilize action, you can use a blunt object,such as a Light Hammer, to hammer a spike into wood, earth, or a similar material. You can do so to jam a door shut or to then tie a Rope or Chain to the Spike.

228	CHAPTER 6 I EQUIPMENT



SPYGLASS (1,000 GP)
Objects viewed through a Spyglass are magnified to twice their size.

STRING (I SP)
String is 10 feet long. You can tie a knot in it as a Utiliz.e action.

TENT (2 GP)
A Tent sleeps up to two Small or Medium creatures.

TINDERBOX (5 SP)
ATinderbox is a small container holding flint, fire steel, and tinder (usually dry cloth soaked in light oil) used to kindle a fire. Using it to light a Candle, Lamp, Lantern, or Torch-or anything else with exposed fuel-takes a Bonus Action. Lightingany other fire takes I minute.

TORCH (I CP)
ATorch burns for 1 hour, casting Bright Light in a 20-foot radius and Dim Light for an addition.al
20 feet. When you take the Attack action, you can attack with the Torch, using it as a Simple Melee weapon. On a hit, the target takes 1 Fire damage.


VIAL (I GP)
A Vial holds up to 4 ounces.

WATERSKIN (2 SP)
A Waterskin holds up to 4 pints. If you don't drink sufficient water, you risk dehydration (see the rules glossary).
MOUNTS AND VEHICLES
A mount can help you move more quickly through the wilderness, but its primary purpose is to carry gear that would otherwise slow you down. The Mounts and Other Anjmals table shows each ani·
BARDING		
Barding is armor designed for a mount. Any type of armor on the Armor table in this chapter can be purchased as barding.The cost is four times the normal cost, and it weighs twice as much.
SADDLES
Asaddle comes with a bit, a bridle, reins, and any other equipment needed to use the saddle. A Mili· tarySaddle gives Advantage on any abilitycheck you make to remain mounted. An Exotic Saddle is required for ridingan aquatic or a Aying mount.

MOUNTS AND OTHER ANIMALS
mal's carrying capacity. See appendix B for the ani· mals' stat blocks.
MOUNTS AND CARGO
An animal pulling a carriage, cart, chariot, sled, or wagon can move weight up to five times its base carrying capacity, includfag the weight of the ve• hicle. lfmultiple animals pull the same vehicle, add their carrying capacities together.
Item
Carrying Capacity	Cost
CHAPTER 6 I EQUfPMENT	229
TACK, HARNESS, AND DRAWN VEHICLES



















LARGE VEHICLES
The Airborne and Waterborne Vehicles table pro· vides statistics for various types of large vehicles. The following notes apply.
SPEED
A ship sailing against a strong wind moves at half speed. In a dead calm (no wind). waterborne ships can't move under sail and must be rowed. Keelboats and Rowboats are used on lakes and rivers. If going downstream, add the speed of the current (typically 3 miles per hour) to the speed of the vehicle. These vehicles can't be rowed against anysignificant cur-rent, but they can be pulled upstream by draft ani· mals on the shores. A Rowboat can be carried and weighs 100 pounds.
CREW
Aship larger than a Keelboat or Rowboat needs a crew of skilled hirelings (see "Services" later in
this chapter) to function. The minimum number of skilled hirelings needed to crew a ship depends on the type of ship, as shown in the table.
PASSENGERS
The table lists the number of Small and Medium passengers the ship can accommodate using ham-mocks. Aship outfitted with private accommoda-tions can carry one-fifth as many passengers. A passenger usually pays 5 SP per day for a hammock, but prices can vary from ship toship. Asmall pri-vate cabin usually costs 2 GP per day.
DAMAGE TRRESHOLD
If a vehicle has a damage threshold (see the rules glossary), it's noted in the table.
SHIP REPAIR
Repairs to a damaged ship can be made while the vessel is berthed. Repairing 1 Hit Point of damage requires I day and costs 20 GP for materials and la• bor. If the repairs are made in a location where sup· plies and skilled labor are abundant, such as a city shipyard, the repair time and cost are halved.
SERVICES
This section outlines services and other expenses that adventurers might spend money on.
LIFESTYLE EXPENSES
Lifestyle expenses summarize the cost of living in a fantasy world.They cover lodging, food, equipment maintenance, and other necessities.
At the start of each week or month (DM's choice), choose a lifestyle below-Wretched, Squalid, Poor, Modest, Comfortable, Wealthy, or Aristocratic-and pay the price to sustain that lifestyle.
Lifestyles have no inherent consequences. but the OM might take them into account when determin-ing risks or how others perceive your character.
WRETCH.ED (FREE)
You survive via chance and charity. You're often exposed to natural dangers as a result of sleeping outside.

AIRBORNE ANO WATERBORNE VEHICLES

Ship	Speed	Crew	Passengers	Cargo (Tons)	AC	HP	Damage Threshold	Cost
Airship	8 mph	10	20	1	13	300		40,000 GP
Galley	4 mph	80		150	15	500	20	30,000 GP
Keelboat	1 mph		6	1/2	15	100	10	3,000 GP
Longship	3 mph	40	150	10	15	300	15	10,000 GP
Rowboat	llh mph	1	3		11	50		50GP
Sailing Ship	2 mph	20	20	100	15	300	15	10,000 GP
Warship	21h mph	60	60	200	15	500	20	25,000 GP







230	CHAPTER 6 I EQ.UIPMENT





































SQ,OALID (1SP PER DAY)	Fooo, DRINK, AND LODCINC
You spend the bare minimum for your necessities.	Item	Cost	Item	Cost
You might be exposed to unhealthy conditions and	Ale (mug)	4 CP	Meal
opportunistic criminals.
POOR (2 SP PER DAY)
You spend frugally for your necessities.

MODEST (I GP PER DAY)	Squalid	7 CP	Comfortable	2 SP
You support yourself at an average level.	Poor	1 SP	Wealthy	3 SP
COMFORTA.81..E (2 GP PER DAY)
You spend modestly for your necessities and enjoy a
few luxuries.	Wealthy	2GP	Common	2 SP
WEALTHY (4 GP PER DAY)	Aristocratic	4GP	Fine	l0GP You're accustomed to the finer things in life and
might have servants.
TRAVE-L
ARISTOCRATIC (10 GP PER DAY)	Drivers or crew hired to conduct passengers to You pay for the best and might have a staff that sup-	 their destinations charge the rates on the Travel ta-ports your lifestyle. Others notice your wealth and	 ble, plus any tolls or additional expenses.
might encourage you to share it, either legally or	TRAVEL
otherwise.
Service
FOOD, DRINK, ANDLODGING	Coach ride between towns
I	The  Food, Drink, and Lodging table gives prices for	Coach ride within a city
Cost
3 CP per mile 1 CP per mile
i	food and a single night's lodging. Prices for daily	Road or gate toll
1 CP
lodging and meals are included in your lifestyle's
§	e·xpenses.
Ship's passage	1 SP per mile


CHAPTER 6 I E.QUIPMENT	'23l
HIRELINGS
Skilled hirelings include anyone hired to perform a service that involves a proficiency (including weapon, tool. or skill): a mercenary, an artisan, a scribe, or the like.The payshown on the Hirelings table is a minimum; some expert hirelings require more pay. Untrained hirelings are hired for work that requires no particular proficiencies; they in-clude laborers and porters.

HIRELINCS
physical contact with the item. At the end of the rest, you learn its properties and how to use them (but not any curse the item might bear).
Sometimes a magic item carries a clue to its prop-erties. The command word to activate a ring might be etched inside the band, or a feathered design might hint that it's a Ringof Feather Falling.
Wearing or experimenting with an item can also offer hints about its properties. fn the specific case of Potions, a little taste is enough to tell the taster what a potion does. Other items might require more experimentation. For example, if your char•
Service
Skilled hireling Untrained hireling Messenger
SPELLCASTING
Cost
2 GP per day 2 SP per day 2 CP per mile
acter puts on a Ringof Swimming, the DM might say, "Your movement feels strangely fluid." Perhaps you then dive into a river to see what happens. The DM would then say you swim unexpectedly well.
ATTUNEMENT
Some magic items require a creature to form a
Most settlements contain individuals who are will-ing to cast spells in exchange for payment. lf a spell has expensive components. add the cost of those components to the cost listed in the Spellcasting Services table. The higher the level of a desired spell. the harder it is to find someone to cast it.

SPELLCASTINC SERVICES














MAGIC ITEMS
Adventures hold the promise-but not a guarantee-of finding magic items. Hundreds of magic items are detailed in the Dungeon Master's Guide,since the DM decides when you find such an item. Here's what you need to know about using magic items.
IDENTIFYING A MAGIC ITEM
Some magic items are indistinguishable from their nonmagical counterparts, while others are conspic· uously magical. Handling a magic item is enough to give you a sense that it is extraordinary, but learn-ing a magic item's properties isn't automatic.
The Identify spell is the fastest way to reveal an item's properties. Alternatively. you can focus on one magic item duringa Short Rest while being in
bond-called Attunement-with them before the creature can use an item's magicaI properties.
Without becoming attuned to an item that requires Attunement, you gain only its nonmagical benefits unless its description states otherwise. For example, a magic Shield that requires Attunement provides the benefits of a normal Shield if you aren't attuned to it, but none of its magical properties.
ATTUNE DURING A SHORT REST
Attuning to an item requires you to spend a Short Rest focused on only that item while beingin physi· cal contact with it (this can't be the same Short Rest used to learn the item's properties). This focus can take the form of weapon practice (for a Weapon), meditation (for a Wand), or some other appropri• ate activity. If the Short Rest is interrupted, the Attunement attempt fails. Otherwise, at the end of the Short Rest, you're attuned to the magic item and can access its full magical capabilities.
No Mon	Tu.AN THREE ITEMS
You can be attuned to no more than three magic items at a time. Any attempt to attune toa fourth item fails: you must end your Attunement to an item first. Additionally, you can't attune to more than one copy of an item. For example. you can't attune to more than one Ringof Protectio,1 at a time.
ENDING ATTUNEMENT
Your Attunement to an item ends if you no longer satisfy the prerequisites for Attunement, if the item has been more than 100 feet away for at least 24 hours, if you die. or if another creature attunes to the item. You can also voluntarily end Attunement byspending another Short Rest focused on the item unless the item is cursed.




232	CHAPTER 6 I EQ.UIPMl!NT
WEARING AND WIELDING ITEMS
Usinga magic item's properties might mean wearing or wielding it. A magic item meant to be worn must be donned in the intended fashion: boots go on feet, gloves on hands, hats and helmets on a head, and rings on a Anger. Magic armor must be donned, a Shield strapped to the arm, a cloak fastened about the shoulders. Aweapon must be held.
In most cases, a magic item that's meant to be worn can At a creature regardless of size or build, Magic garments are made to be easily adjustable, or they magically adjust themselves to the wearer.
MULTIPLE ITEMS OF THE SAME KIND
You can't wear more than one of certain magic items. You can't normally wear more than one pair of footwear, one pair of gloves or gauntlets, one pair of bracers, one suit of armor, one item of headwear, or one cloak. The OM might make exceptions.
PAIRED ITEMS
Items that come in pairs-such as boots, bracers, gauntlets. and gloves-impart their benefits only if both items of the pair are worn. For example, a character wearing a Boot of St·ridi11g and Springing
on one foot and a Boot of Elvenkind on the other foot gains no benefit from either.
CRAFTING EQUIPMENT
Using the rules below, characters can make non-magical items, Potions of Healing, and Spell Scrolls.
CRAFTING NONMAGICAL ITEMS
Tocraft:a nonmagical item, you need tools, raw ma-terials, and time, each of which is detailed below. If you meet the requirements, you make the item, and you can use it or sell it at its normal price.
TOOLS
This chapter's "Tools'"section lists which tools are required to make certain items.The OM assigns re-quired tools for items not listed there.
You must use the required tool to make an item and have proficiency with that tool. Anyone who helps you must also have proficiency with it.
RAW MATERIALS
To make an item, you need raw materials worth half its purchase cost (round down). For example, you need 750 GP of raw materials to make Plate Ar-mor, which sells for 1,500 GP. The OM determines whether appropriate raw materials are available.
TrME
To determine how many days (working 8 hoursa day) it takes to make an item. divide its purchase
cost in GP by 10 (round a fraction up to a day). For example, you need 5 days to make a Heavy Cross-bow, which sells for 50 GP.
If an item requires multiple days, the days needn't be consecutive.
Characters can combine their efforts to shorten the crafting time. Divide the time needed to create an item by the number of characters working on it. Normally, only one other character can assist you, but the OM might allow more assistants.
BREWING POTIONS OF HEALING
A character who has proficiency with the Herbalism Kit can create a Potion of Healing. Doingso requires using that kit and 25 GP of raw material over the course of I day (8 hours of work).
SCRIBING SPELL SCROLLS
A spellcaster can transfer a spell to a scroll and cre• ate a Spell Scroll, using the rules below.
TIME AND COST
Scribing a scroll takes an amount of time and money based on the level of the spell, as shown in the Spell Scroll Costs table. For each day of inscrip-tion, you must work for 8 hours. If a scroll requires multiple days, those days needn't be consecutive.
PREREQUISITES PQR THE SCRIBE
Toscribe a scroll, you must have proficiency in the Arcana skill or with Calligrapher's Tools and have the spell prepared on each day of the inscription. You must also have at hand any Material compo-nents required by the spell: if the spell consumes its Material components, they are consumed only
when you complete the scroll.The scroll's spell uses your spell save DC and spell attack bonus.
CANTRIPS
If the scribed spell is a cantrip, the version on the scroll works as if the caster were your level.

SPELL SCROLL COSTS

Spell Level	Time	Cost
Cantrip	1 day	15 GP
1	1 day	25GP
2	3 days	100 GP
3	5 days	150 GP
4	10 days	1,000 GP
5	25 days	1,S00 GP
6	40 days	10,000 GP
7	50 days	12,S00 GP
8	60 days	lS,000 GP
9	120days	50,000 GP



CHAPTER 6 I EQ.UJPMENT	233

CHAPTER 7
SPELLS




HIS CHAPTER GIVES RULES FOR CASTING
spells. It also includes descriptions of com-mon spells in the worlds of DUNGEONS
& DRAGONS. Those spells are used by many class features, magic items. and monsters.
GAINING SPELLS
Before you can cast a spell, you must have the spell prepared in your mind or have access to the spell from a magic item, such as a Spell Scroll. Your fea·
tu res specify which spells you have access to, if any: whether you always have certain spells prepared; and whether you can change the list of spells you have prepared.
PREPARING SPELLS
lf you have a list of level 1• spells you prepare, your spellcasting featurespecifies when you can change the list and the number of spells you can change, as summarized in the Spell Preparation by Class table.

SPELL PREPARATION BY CLASS

Class	Change When You ...	Number ofSpells
Bard	Gain a level	One
Cleric	Finish a Long Rest	Any
Druid	Finish a Long Rest	Any
Paladin	Finish a Long Rest	One
Ranger	Finish a Long Rest	One
Sorcerer	Gain a level	One
Warlock	Gain a level	One
Wizard	Finish a Long Rest	Any
Most spellcasting monsters don't change their lists of prepared spells, but the OM is free to alter them.

ALWAYS-PREPARED SPELL-S ---
Certain features might give you a spell that you always have prepared. If you also have a list of pre-pared spells that you can change, a spell that you always have prepared doesn't count against the number of spells on that list.


CASTING IN ARMOR
You must have training with any armor you are wearing to cast spells while wearing it. You are otherwise too hampered by the armor for spellcasting.





CASTING SPELLS
Each spell description has a series of entries that provide the details needed to cast the spell. The fol-lowingsections explain each of those entries, which follow a spell's name.
SPELL LEVEL
Every spell has a level from O to 9, which is indi-cated in a spell's description. Aspell's level is an indicator of how powerful it is. Cantrips-simple spells that can be cast almost by rote-are level 0. The rules for each spellcasting classsay when its members gain access to spells of certain levels.
SPELL SLOTS
Spellcasting is taxing,so a spellcaster can cast only a limited number of level I• spells before resting.
Spell slots are the main way a spellcaster's magical potential is represented. Each spellcasting class gives its members a limited number of spell slots of certain spell levels. For example, a level 3 Wizard has four level1 spell slots and two level 2 slots.
When you cast a spell. you expend a slot of that spell's level or higher, effectively "filling" a slot with the spell. Imagine a spell slot is a groove of a certain size-small for a level 1slot and larger for a
higher-levelspell. A level Ispell fits into a slot of any size, but a level 2 spell fitsonly into a slot that's at least level 2. So when a level 3 Wizard casts Magic Missile, a level 1 spell, that Wizard spends one of four level 1slots and has three remaining.
Finishing a Long Rest restores any expended spell slots.
CASTING WITHOUT SLOTS
There are several ways to cast a spell without expending a spell slot:
Cantrips. A cantrip is cast without a spell slot. Rituals. Certain spells have the Ritual tag in the
CastingTime entry.Such a spell can be cast fol· lowing the normal rules for spellcasting, or it can be cast as a Ritual.The Ritual version of a spell takes 10 minutes longer to cast than normal, but it doesn't expend a spell slot. To cast a spell as a Rit-ual, a spellcaster must have it prepared.
Special Abilities. Some characters and monsters havespecial abilities that allow them to cast spe-cific spells without a spell slot. This casting is usu-ally limited in another way, such as beingable to cast the spell a limited number of times per day.
CHAPTER 7 I SPELLS	235
Magic Items. Spell Scrolls and some other magic items contain spells that can be cast without a spell slot.The description of such an item specifies how many times a spell can be cast from it.
USING A HIGHER-LEVEL SPELL SLOT
When a spellcaster casts a spell using a slot that is of a higher level than the spell. the spell takes on the higher level for that casting. For instance, if a Wizard casts Magic Missile using a level 2 slot, that Magic Missile is level 2. Effectively, the spell expands to fill the slot it is put into.
Some spells, such as Magic Missile and Cure Wounds, have more powerfu1effects when cast at a higher level, as detailed in a spell's description.
SCHOOL OF MAGIC
Each spell belongs to a school of magic. The schools are listed in the Schools of Magic table. These cate· gories help describe spells but have no rules of their own, although some other rules refer to them.

SCHOOLS OF MACIC
School	Typical Effects
Abjuration	 Prevents or reverses harmful effects Conjuration	Transports creatures or objects Divination	 Reveals information
Enchantment	Influences minds
Evocation	Channels energy to create effects
that are often destructive Illusion	 Deceives the mind or senses Necromancy	Manipulates life and death Transmutation Transforms creatures or objects
CLASS SPELL LISTS
If a spell is on a class's spell list, the class's name appears in parentheses after the spell's school of magic. Some features add a spell to a character's spell list even if the character isn't a member of a class in the parentheses.
CASTING TIME
Most spells require the Magic action to cast, but some spells require a Bonus Action, a Reaction, or 1 minute or more. Aspell's Casting Time entry speci· fies which of those is required.
ONE SPELL WITH A SPELL SLOT PŁR TuRN
On a turn, you can expend only one spell slot to cast a spell. This rule means you can't, for example, cast a spell with a spell slot using the Magic action and another one usinga Bonus Action on the same turn.
REACTION AND BONUS ACTION TRIGGERS
Aspell that has a casting time of a Reaction is cast in response to a trigger that is defined in the speU's CastingTime entry.Some spells that have a casting time of a Bonus Action are also cast in response to a trigger defined in the spell.
LONGER CASTING TIMES
Certain spells-includinga spell cast as a Ritual-require more time to cast: minutes or even hours. While you cast a spell with a casting time of I minute or more, you must take the Magic action on each of your turns, and you must maintain Con-centration (see the rules glossary) while you do so.
If your Concentration is broken, the spell fails, but you don't expend a spell slot. To cast the spell again, you must start over.
RANGE
Aspell's range indicates how far from the spell-caster the spell's effect can originate, and the spell's description specifies which part of the effect is lim-ited by the range.
A range usually takes one of the following forms:
Distance. The range isexpressed in feet.
Touch. The spell's effect originates on something the spellcaster must touch, as defined in the spell.
Self. The spell is cast on the spellcaster or emanates from them, as specified in the spell.
If a spell has movable effects, they aren't restricted by its range unless the spell's description says otherwise.
COMPONENTS
Aspell's components are physical requirements the spellcaster must meet to cast the spell. Each spell's description indicates whether it requires Verbal (V). Somatic (S), or Material (M) components. Lf the spellcaster can't provide one or more of a spell's components, thespellcaster can't cast the spell.
VERBAL (V)
A Verbal component is the chanting of esoteric words that sound like nonsense to the uninitiated. The words must be uttered in a normalspeaking voice. The words themselves aren't the source of the spell's power; rather, the particular combination of sounds, with specific pitch and resonance, sets the threads of magic in motion. Thus. a creature who is gagged or in an aru of magical silence can't cast a spell with a Verbal component.
SOMATIC (S)
A Somatic component is a forceful gesticulation or an intricate set of gestures. A spellcaster must use at least one of their hands to perform these movements.

?36	CHAPTE;R 7 I SPELLS


























MATERlAL (M)
A Material component is a particular material used in a spell's casting, as specified in parentheses in the Components entry.These materials aren't consumed by the spell unless the spell's description states otherwise. The spellcaster must have a hand free to access them, but it can be the same hand used to perform Somatic components, if any.
If a spell doesn't consume its materials and doesn't
specify a cost for them, a spellcaster can use a Com• ponent Pouch (see chapter 6) instead of providing the materials specified io the spell. or the spellcaster can substitute a Spellcasting Focus if the caster
has a feature that allows that substitution. To use a Component Pouch, you must have a hand free to reach into it, and to usea Spellcastfog Focus, you must hold it unless its description says otherwise (see chapter 6 for descriptions).


CREATING VERBAL COMPONENTS
If you'd like tosay a spell's Verbal component, you may make up the words. However you make them, the goal is to create something that's easy to say and that doesn't mean anything in the real world. Consider this method: take the name of the spell, keep only one instance of each of its letters, and rearrange the remaining letters into words. For example, remove the second Ifrom Fireball and rearrange the remaining letters to create Ber Fila or Fe/ Biro.


•
DURATION
A spell's duration is the length of time the spell per• sists afl:er it is cast. A duration typically takes one of the following forms:
Concentration. Aduration that requires Coneen• tration follows the Concentration rules (see the rules glossary).
Instantaneous. Anfostantaneous duration means the spell's magic appears only for a moment and then disappears.
Time Span. A duration that provides a time.span specifies how long the spell lasts in rounds, min· utes, hours, or the like. For example, a Duration entry might say "I minute," meaning the spell ends after 1 minute has passed. While a time-span spell that you cast is ongoing, you can dismiss it (no ac· tion required) if you don't have the Incapacitated condition.
EFFECTS
Theeffects of a spell are detailed after its duration entry. Those details present exactly what the spell does, which ignores mundane physical laws; any outcomes beyond those effects are under the DM's purview. Whatever the effects, they typically deal with targets, saving throws, attack rolls, or all three, each of which is detailed below.
TARGETS
A typical spell requires the caster to pick one or more targets to be affected by the spell's magic. A spell's description says whether the spell targets creatures, objects, or something else.
CHAPTER 7 I SPELLS	237






















A Clear Path to the Target. To target something with a spell, a caster must have a clear path to it, so it can't be behind Total Cover.
Targeting Yourself. If a spell targets a creature of your choice, you can choose yourself unless the creature must be Hostile or specifically a creature other than you.
Areas of Effect. Some spells, such as Thunderwave, cover an area called an area of effect, which is de-fined in the rules glossary. The area determines what the spell targets. The description of a spell specifies whether it has an area of effect, which is typically one of these shapes: Cone, Cube, Cylinder, Emanation, Line, or Sphere.
Awareness of BeingTargeted. Unless a spell has a perceptible effect, a creature doesn't know it was targeted by the spell. An effect like lightning is ob· vious, but a more subtle effect, such as an attempt to read thoughts, goes unnoticed unless a spell's description says otherwise.
Invalid Targets. If you cast a spell on someone or something that can't be affected by it, nothing
happens to that target, but if you used a spell slot to cast the spell. the slot is still expended.
If the spell normally has no effect on a target that succeeds on a saving throw, the invalid target ap· pears to have succeeded on its saving throw, even though it didn't attempt one (giving no hint that the creature is an invalid target). Otherwise. you per· ceive that thespell did nothing to the target.
SAVING THROWS
Manyspells specify that a target makes a saving throw to avoid some or all of a spell's effects. The spell specifies the ability that the target uses for






















the save and what happens on a success or failure. Here's how to calculate the DC for your spells:
Spell save DC• 8 + your spellcasting ability modifier
+ your Proficiency Bonus
ATTACK ROLLS
Some spells require the caster to make an attack roll to determine \vhether the spell hits a target. Here's how to calculate the attack modifier for your spells:
Spell attack modifier= your spellcasting ability modifier+ your Proficiency Bonus
COM BIN ING SPELL ErPECTS
Tbeeffects of different spells add together while their durations overlap. In contrast. the effects of the same spell cast multiple times don't combine. Instead, the most potent effect-such as the  high-est bonus-from those castings applies while their durations overlap. The most recent effect applies if the castings are equally potent and their durations overlap. For example, if two Clerics cast Bless on the same target, that target gains the spell's benefit only once; the target doesn't receive two bonus dice. But if the durations of the spells overlap, the effect con-tinues until the duration of the second Bless ends.

IDENTIFYING AN ONGOING SPELL
You can try to identify a non-instantaneousspell by its observable effects if its duration is ongoing. To identify it, you must take the Study action and succeed on a DC 15 Intelligence (Arcana) check.



238	CHAPTER 7) SPELLS
SPELL DESCRIPTIONS
Thespells are presented in alphabetical order.


ACID SPLASH
EvocationCantrip (Sarcerer. Wizard)
Casting Time: Action Range: 60 feet Components: V, S Duration: Instantaneous
You create an acidic bubble at a point within range. where it explodes in a 5-foot-radius Sphere, Each creatw·e in that Sphere must succeed on a Dexterity saving throw or take ld6 Acid damage.
Cantrip Upgrade. The damage increases by td6 when you reach levels 5 (2d6), U (3d6), and 17 (4d6).

AID
Level 2 Abjuration (Bard, Cleric. Druid, Paladin, Ranger)
Casting Time: Action
Range: 30 feet
Components: V, S, M (a strip of white cloth) Duration: 8 hours
Choose up to three creatures within range. Each target's Hit Point maximum and current Hit Points increase by 5 for the duration.
Using a Higher-Level Spell Slot. Each target's Hit Points increase by 5 for each spell slot level above 2.


ALARM
Level J Abjuration (Ranger, Wizard)
Casting Time: 1 minute or Ritual Range: 30 feet
Components: V, S, M (a bell and silver wire) Duration: 8 hours
You set an alarm against intrusion. Choose a door, a window, or an area within range that is no larger than a 20-foot Cube. Until the spell ends, an alarm alerts you whenever a creature touches or enters the warded area. When you cast the spell, you can
designate creatures that won't set off the alarm. You also choose whether the alarm is audible or mental:
Audible Alarm. The alarm produces the sound of a handbeU for 10 seconds within 60 feet of the warded area.
Mental Alarm. You are alerted by a mental ping ifyou are within I mile of the warded area. This ping awakens you if you're asleep.

ALTER SELF
Level 2 Transmutation (Sorcerer, Wizard)
Casting Time: Action Range: Self Components: V, S
Duration: Concentration, up to 1 hour
You alter your physical form. Choose one of the following options. Its effects last for the duration, during which you can take a Magic action to replace the option you chose with a different one.
Aquatic Adaptation. You sprout gills and grow webs between your fingers. You can breathe under-water and gain a Swim Speed equal to your Speed.
Change Appeamnce. You alter your appeannce. You decide what you look like, including your height, weight, facial features, sound of your voice, hair length. coloration, and other distinguishing characteristics. You can make yourself appea1·as
a member of another species, though none of your statistics change. You can't appear as a creature ofa different size, and your basic shape stays the same; if you're bipedal, you can't use this spell to become quadrupedal, for instance. For the duration, you can take a Magic action to change your appearance in this way again.
Natural Weapons. You grow claws (Slashing). fangs (Piercing). horns (Piercing), or hooves (Blud-geoning). When you use your Unarmed Strike to deal damage with that new growth, it deals Jd6 damage of the type in parentheses instead of deal-ing the normal damage for your Unarmed Strike, and you use your spellcasting ability modifier for the attack and damage rolls rather than using Strength.

ANIMAL FRIENDSHIP
Level I enchantment (Bard, Druid, Ranger)
Casting Time: Action
Range: 30 feet
Components: V, S, M (a morsel of food) Duration: 24 hours
Target a Beast that you can see within range.The target must succeed on a Wisdom saving throw or have the Charmed condition for the duration. If you or one of your allies deals damage to the target, the spells ends.
Using a Higher-Level SpellSlot. You can target one additional Beast for eachspell slot level above l.







CHAPTER 7 I SPELLS	239
ANIMAi. MESSENGER
Level 2 Enchantment (Bard, Druid, Ranger)
Casting Time: Action or Ritual
Range: 30 feet
Components: V, S, M (a morsel of food) Duration: 24 hours
A Tiny Beast of your choice that you ca.a see ,vithin range must succeed on a Charisma saving throw, or it attempts to deliver a message for you (if the tar• get's Challenge Rating isn't 0, it automatically sue• ceeds). You specify a location you have visited and a recipient who matches a general description, such as "a person dressed in the uniform of the town guard" or "a red-haired dwarf wearing a pointed hat." You also communicate a message of up to twenty-five words. The Beast travels for the duration toward the specified location, covering about 25 miles per 24 hours or 50 miles if the Beast can fly.
When the Beast arrives, it delivers your message to the creature that you described, mimicking your communicatfon. lftbe Beast doesn't reach its desti· nation before the spell ends. the message is lost, and the Beast returns to where you cast the spell.
Usinga Higher-Level Spell Slot.The spell's dura· tion increases by 48 hours for each spell slot level above 2.

ANIMAL SHAPES
Level 8 Transmutation (Druid)
Casting Time: Action Range: 30 feet Components: V, S Duration: 24 hours
Choose any number of willing creatures that you can see within range. Each target shape·shill:s into a Large or smaller Beast of your choice that has a Challenge Rating of 4 or lower. You can choose a different form for each target. On later turns, you can take a Magic action to transform the targets again.
A target's game statistics are replaced by the chosen Beast's statistics. but the target retains its creature type; Hit Points; Hit Point Dice; alignment; ability to communicate;and Intelligence, Wisdom, and Charisma scores. The target's actions are Jim· ited by the Beast form's anatomy, and it can't cast spells. The target's equipment melds into the new form, and the target can't use any of that equipment while in that form,
The target gains a number of Temporary Hit Points equal to the Beast form's Hit Points. The transformation lasts for the duration for each tar· get, until the target has no Temporary Hit Points, or until the target leaves the form as a Bonus Action.
ANIMATE DEAD
Level 3 Necromancy (Cleric,Wizard)
Casting Time: 1 minute
Range: 10 feet
Components: V, S, M (a drop of blood, a piece of flesh, and a pinch of bone dust)
Duration: Instantaneous
Choose a pile of bones or a corpse of a Medium or Small Humanoid within range. The target becomes an Undead creature: a Skeleton if you chose bones or a Zombie if you chose a corpse (see appendix B for the stat blocks).
On each of your turns, you can take a Bonus Actioo to mentally command any creature you made with this spell if the creature is within 60 feet of you (if you control multiple creatures, you can command any of them at the same time, issu-ing the same command to each one). You decide what action the creature will take and where it will move on its next turn, or you can issue a general command,such as to guard a chamber or corridor. If you issue no commands, the creature takes the Dodge action and moves 01,ly to avoid harm. Once given an order, the creature continues to follow it until its task is complete.
The creature is under your control for 24 hours, after which it stops obeying any command you've given it. To maintain control of the creature for an-other 24 hours, you must cast this spell on the crea· ture again before the current 24-hour period ends. This use of the spell reasserts your control over up to four creatures you have animated with thisspell rather than animating a new creature.
Using a Higher-Level Spell Slot. You animate or reassert control over two additional Undead crea· tures for each spell slot level above 3. Each of the creatures must come from a different corpse or pile of bones.

ANIMATE OBJECTS
Level 5 Transmutation (Bard,Sorcerer, Wizard)
Casting Time: Action Range: 120 feet Components: V, S
Duration: Concentration, up to 1 minute
Objects animate at your command. Choose a num• ber of nonmagical objects within range that aren't being worn or carried, aren't fixed to a surface, and aren't Gargantuan. The maximum number of ob· jects is equal to your spellcasting ability modifier; for this number, a Medium or smaller target counts as one object, a Large target counts as two, and a Huge target counts as three.

240	CHAPTER 7 I SPELLS





A BA,\"111:'A A,.FFCT!0 ev THE
SPŁLL ANIMAr«OeJtcrs























Each target animates, sprouts legs, and becomes a Construct that uses the Animated Object stat block; this creature is under your control until the
spell ends or until it is reduced to O Hit Points. Each
creature you make with this spell is an ally to you and your allies. In combat, it shares your fnitiative count and takes its turn immediately alter yours.
Until the spell ends, you can take a Bonus Action to mentally command any creature you made with
this spell if the creature is within 500 feet of you (if you control multiple creatures, you can command any of them at the same time, issuing the same command to each one). If you issue no commands, the creature takes the Dodge action and moves only to avoid harm.When the creature drops to O Hit Points, it reverts to its object form. and any remain-ing damage carries over to that form.
Using a Higher-Level Spell Slot. The creature's Slam damage increases by ld4 (Medium or smaller), td6 (Large), or td12 (Huge) for each spell slot level above5.

ANTlLlFE SHELL
Level 5 Abjuration (Druid)
Casting Time: Action Range:Self Components: V, S
Duration: Concentration, up to 1 hour
An aura extends from you in a 10-foot Emanation for the duration. The aura prevents creatures other than Constructs and Undead from passing or reach-ing through it. An affected creature can cast spells or make attacks with Ranged or Reach weapons through the barrier.
If you move so that an affected creature is forced to pass through the barrier, the spell ends.


ANTIMAGIC FIELD
Level 8 Abjuration (Cleric, Wizard)
Casting Time: Action
Range: Self
Components: V, S, M (iron filings) Duration: Concentration, up to 1 hour
An aura or antimagic surrounds you in 10-foot Em-anation. No one can cast spells. take Magic actions, or create other magical effects inside the aura, and those things can't target or otherwise affect any-thing inside it. Magical properties of magic items don't work inside the aura or on anything inside it.
Areas of effect created by spells or other magic can't extend into the aura. and no one can teleport intoor out of it or use planar travel there. Portals close temporarily while in the aura.
Ongoingspells, except those cast by an Artifact or a deity, are suppressed in the area. While an effect is suppressed. it doesn't function, but the time it spends suppressed counts against its duration.
Dispel Magic has no effect on the aura, and the au-ras created by different Antimagic Field spells don't nullify each other.




CHAPTER 7 I SPELLS	241





ANTIPATHY/SYMPATHY
Level 8 fa1cliantment (Bard, Druid, Wizard)
Casting Time: 1 hour
Range: 60 feet
Components: V, S, M (a mix of vinegar and honey) Duration: 10days
As you cast the spell.choose whether it creates an• tipathy or sympathy, and target one creature or ob-ject that is Huge or smaller. Thenspecify a kind of creature, such as red dragons. gobUns. or vampires. A creature of the chosen kind makes a Wisdom saving throw when it comes within 120 feet of the target. Your choice of antipathy or sympathy deter-mines what happens to a creature when it fails that save:
Antipathy. The creature has the Frightened condi-tion.The Frightened creature must use ils move-ment on its turns togetas faraway as possible from the target. moving by the safest route.
Sympathy. The creature has the Charmed condi-tion. The Charmed creature must use its move-ment on its turns to get as close as possible to the target, moving by the safest route. If the creature is within S feet of the target. the creature can't willingly move away. If the target damages the Charmed creature, that creature can make a Wis-dom saving throw to end the effect, as described below.
Ending the Bffect. If the Frightened or Charmed creature ends its turn more than t20 feet away from the target. the creature makes a Wisdom sav-ing throw. On a successful save, the creature is no longer affected by the target. A creature that suc-cessfully saves against this effect is immune to it for I minute, after which it can be affected again.

ARCANE EYE
Level 4 Divination (Wizard)
Casting Time: Action
Range: 30 feet
Components: V,S, M (a bit of bat fur) Duration: Concentration, up to 1 hour
You create an Invisible. invulnerable eye within range that hovers for the duration. You mentally receive visual information from the eye, which can see in every direction. It also has Darkvision with a range of 30 feet.
As a Bonus Action, you can move the eye up to 30 feet in any direction. A solid barrier blocks the eye's movement, but the eye can pass through an opening as small as I inch in diameter.





ARCANE CATE
Level 6 Conjuration (Sorcerer, Warlock.Wiza,·d)
Casting Time: Action Range: 500 feet Components: V, S
Duration: Concentration, up to 10 minutes
You create linked tc.leportation portals. Choose two Large, unoccupied spaces on the ground that you cansee,one space within range and the other one within 10 feet of you. A circular portal opens in each of those spaces and remains for the duration.
The portals are two-dimensional glowing rings filled with mist that blockssight. They hover inches from the ground and are perpendicular to it.
A portal is open on only one side (you choose which). Anything entering the open sideof a portal exits from the open side of the other portal as if the two were adjacent to each other. As a Bonus Action. you can change the facing of the open sides.

ARCANE LOCK
Level 2 Abjuration (Wizard)
Casting Time: Action
Range:Touch
Components: V, S, M (gold dust worth 25+ GP, which the spell consumes)
Duration: Until dispelled
You touch a closed door, window, gate, container, or hatch and magically lock it for the duration. This lock can't be unlocked by any nonmagical means.
You and any creatures you designate when you cast the spell can open and dose the object despite the lock. You can also set a password that, ,vhen spoken within 5 feet of the object, unlocks it for I minute.

ARCANE YICOR
Level 2 Abjuration (Sorcerer, Wizard)
Casting Time: Bonus Action
Range: Self Component: V, S Duration: Instantaneous
You tap into your life force to heal yourself. Roll one or two of your unexpended Hit Point Dice, and re• gain a number of Hit Points equal to the roll's total plus your spellcasting ability modifier. Those dice are then expended.
Using a Higher-Level Spell Slot.The number of un-expended Hit Dice you can roll increases by one for each spell slot level above 2.



242	CHAPTER 7 I SPELLS




ARMOR OF ACATHYS
Level I Abjuration (Warlock)
Casting Time: Bonus Action
Range: Self
Components: V, S, M (a shard of blue glass) Duration: 1 hour
Protective magical frost surrounds you. You gain S Temporary Hit Points. If a creature hits you with a melee attack roll before the spell ends, the creature takes 5 Cold damage. The spell ends early if you have noTemporary Hit Points.
Using a Higher-Level Spell Slot. The Temporary Hit Points and the Cold damage both increase by 5 for each spell slot level above I.

ARMS OF HADAR
Level I Conjuration (Warlock)
Casting Time: Action Range: Self Components: V, S Duration: Instantaneous
Invoking Hadar, you cause tendrils to erupt from yourself. Each creature in a IO-foot Emanation orig-inating from you makes a Strength saving throw.
On a failed save, a target takes 2d6 Necrotic damage
and can·t take Reactions until the start of its next turn. On a successful save, a target takes half as much damage only.
Using a Higher-Level Spell Slot. The damage in-creases by ld6 for each spell slot level above I.

ASTRAL PROJECTION
Level 9 Necromancy (Cleric, Warlock, Wizard)
Casting Time: 1 hour
Range: 10 feet
Components: V, S, M (for each of the spell's targets, one jacinth worth 1,000+ GP and one silver bar worth 100+ GP, all of which the spell consumes)
Duration: Until dispelled
You and up to eight willing creatures within range project your astral bodies into the Astral Plane (the spell ends instantly if you are already on that plane). Each target's body is leiĽbehind in a state of sus-pended animation; it has the Unconscious condition, doesn't need food or air, and doesn't age.
A target's astral form resembles its body in almost every way, replicating its game statistics and pos-sessions. The principal difference is the addition of a silvery cord that trails from between the shouIder blades of the astral form. The cord fades from view aller I foot. If the cord is cut-which happens only when an effect states that it does so-the target's body and astral form both die.

CHAPTER 7 I SPELLS	?43
A target's astral form can travel through the As· tral Plane. The moment an astral form leaves that plane, the target's body and possessions travel along tbe silver cord, causing the target to re•enter its body on the new plane.
Any damage or other effects that apply to an as· tral form have no effect on the target's body and vice versa. If a target's body or astral form d,ops to 0 Hit Points, the spell eods for that target. The spell ends for all the targets if you take a Magic action to dismiss it.
When the spell ends for a target who isn't dead, the target reappears in its body and exits the state of suspended animation.

AUGURY
Level 2 Divination (Cleric, D,-uid,Wizard)
Casting Time: l minute or Ritual
Range: Self
Components: V, S, M (specially marked sticks, bones, cards, or other divinatory tokens worth 25+ GP)
Duration: Instantaneous
You receive an omen from an otherworldly entity about the resuIts of a course of action that you plan to take within the next 30 minutes. The OM chooses the omen from the Omens table.

AURA OF PURITY
Level 4 Abjuration (Cleric, Paladin)
Casting Time: Action Range: Self Components: V
Duration: Concentration, up to10 minutes
An aura radiates from you in a 30-foot Emanation for the duration. While in the aura, you and your allies have Resistance to Poison damage and Advan-tage on saving throws to avoid or end effects that include the Blinded, Charmed, Deafened, Fright-ened, Paralyzed, Poisoned, or Stunned condition.

AURA OF VITALITY
Level 3 Abjuration (Cleric, Druid, Paladin)
Casting Time: Action Range: Self Components: V
Duration: Concentration, up to 1 minute
An aura radiates from you in a 30-foot Emanation for the duration. When you create the aura and at the start of each of your turns while it persists, you can restore 2d6 Hit Points to one creature in it.

OMENS
Omen Weal Woe
Weal and woe Indifference

For Results That Will Be ...
Good Bad
Good and bad Neither good nor bad
AWAKEN
Level 5 'Transmutation(Bard, Druid)
Casting Time: 8 hours Range:Touch
Components: V, S, M (an agate worth 1,000+ GP, which the spell consumes)
Duration: Instantaneous
The spell doesn't account for circumstances,such as other spells, tbat might change the results.
If you cast the spell more than once before finish-ing a Long Rest, there is a cumulative 25 percent chance for each casting after the first that you get no answer.

AURA OF LIFE
Level 4 Abjuration (Cleric, Paladin)
Casting Time: Action Range: Self Components: V
Duration: Concentration, up to 10 minutes
An aura radiates from you in a 30-foot Emanation for the duration. While in the aura, you and your allies have Resistance to Necrotic damage, and your Hit Point maximums can't be reduced. If an ally with O Hit Points starts its turn in the aura, that ally regains I Hjt Point.
You spend the casting time tracing magical path· ways within a precious gemstone, and then touch the target. The target must be either a Beast or Plant creature with an Intelligence of 3 or less or a natural plant that isn't a creature. The target gains an Intelligence of!Oand the ability tospeak one language you know. If the target is a natural plant, it becomes a Plant creature and gains the ability
to move its limbs, roots, vines, creepers, and so forth, and it gains senses similar to a human's. The OM chooses statistics appropriate for the awak· ened Plant, such as the statistics for the Awakened Shrub or Awakened Tree in the Monster Manual.
The awakened target has the Charmed condition for 30 days or until you or your allies deal damage to it. When that condition ends, the awakened crea· ture chooses its attitude toward you.


244	CHAPTER 7 I SPELLS

BANE
Level I Enchantment (Bard, Cleric, Warlock)
Casting Time: Action Range: 30 feet
Components: V, S, M (a drop of blood) Duration: Concentration, up to 1 minute
Up to three creatures of your choice that you can see within range must each make a Charisma saving throw. Whenever a target that fails this save makes an attack roll or a saving throw before the spell ends, the target must subtract ld4 from the attack roll or save.
Using a Higher-Level Spell Slot. You can target one additional creature for each spell slot level above 1.

BANISHrNG SMITE
Level S Conjuration (Paladin)
Casting Time: Bonus Action, which you take immedi-ately after hitting a creature with a Melee weapon or an Unarmed Strike
Range: Self Component: V
Duration: Concentration, up to 1 minute
The target hit by the attack roll takes an extra Sdl0 Force damage from the attack. If the attack reduces the target to 50 Hit Points or fewer, the target must succeed on a Charisma saving throw or be trans-ported to a harmless demiplane for the duration.
Wh.ile there, the target has the Incapacitated con-dition. When the spell ends. the target reappears in the space it leA: or in the nearest unotcupied space if that space is occupied.

BANISHMENT
Level 4 Abjuration (Cleric, Paladin,Sorcerer. Warlock, Wizard)
Casting Time: Action
Range: 30 feet
Components: V, S, M (a pentacle) Duration: Concentration, up to 1 minute
One creature that you can see within range must succeed on a Charisma saving throw or be trans-ported to a harmless demiplane for the duration. While there, the target has the Incapacitated con-dition. When the spell ends. the target reappears in the space it leA:or in the nearest unoccupied space if that space is occupied.
If the target is an Aberration, a Celestial, an Ele-
mental, a Fey, or a Fiend, the target doesn't return if the spell lasts for l minute. The target is instead
transported to a random location on a plane (DM's choice) associated with its creature type.
Usinga Higher-Level Spell Slot. You can target one additional creature for each spell slot level above 4.


BARKSKIN
Level 2 Transmutation (Dru.id, Ranger)
Casting Time: Bonus Action Range:Touch
Component: V, S, M (a handful of bark) Duration: 1 hour
You touch a willing creature. Until the spell ends, the target's skin assumes a bark-like appearance, and the target has an Armor Class of 17 if its AC is lower than that.


BEACON OF HOPE
Level 3 Abjuration (Cleric)
Casting Time: Action Range: 30 feet Components: V, S
Duration: Concentration, up to 1 minute
Choose any number of creatures within range. For the duration, each target has Advantage on Wis-dom saving throws and Death Saving Throws and regains the maximum number of Hit Points possible from aay healing.

BEAST SENSE
Level 2 Divination (Druid, Ranger)
Casting Time: Action or Ritual
Range: Touch Components: S
Duration: Concentration, up to l hour
You touch a willing Beast. For the duration, you can perceive through the Beast'ssenses as well as your own. When perceiving through the Beast's senses, you benefit from any special senses it has.

BEFUDDLEMENT
Level 8 Enchantment (Bar·d, Druid,Warlock,Wizard)
Casting Time: Action Range: 150 feet
Components: V, S, M (a key ring with no keys) Duration: Instantaneous
You blast the mind of a creature that you can see within range.The target makes an Intelligence sav-ing throw.




CHAPTER 71 SPELLS	24-5































On a railed save, the target takes !Od12 Psychic damage and can't cast spells or take the Magic ac-tion. At the end or every 30 days, the target repeats the save, ending the effect on a success. The effect can also be ended by the Greater Restoration, Heal,or Wish spell.
On a successfulsave, the target takes hair as much damage only.


BESTOW CURSE
Level 3 Necroman.cy (Bard. Cleric, Wizard)
Casting Time: Action Range: Touch Components: V, S
Duration: Concentration, up to 1 minute
You touch a creature, which must succeed on a Wisdom saving throw or become cursed for the du· ration. Until the curse ends, the target suffers one of the following effects of your choice:
    • Choose one ability. The target has Disadvantage on ability checks and saving throws made with that ability.
    • The target has Disadvantage on attack rolls against you.































    • In combat, the target must succeed on a Wisdom saving throw at the start of each of its turns or be forced to take the Dodge action on that turn.
    • If you deal damage to the target with an attack roll or a spell,the target takes an extra ld8 Ne· erotic damage.
Using a Higher-Level Spell Slot. If you cast this spell using a level 4 spell slot, you can maintain Concentration on it for up to 10 minutes. If you use a level 5+spell slot, the spell doesn't require Con· centration, and the duration becomes 8 hours (level 5-6 slot) or 24 hours (level 7-8 slot). If you use a level 9 spell slot, the spell lasts until dispelled.

BIGBY'$ HAND
Level 5 Evocation (Sorcerer, Wizard)
Casting Time: Action Range: 120 feet
Components: V, S, M (an eggshell and a glove) Duration: Concentration, up to 1 minute
You create a Large hand of shimmering magical en• ergy in an unoccupied space that you can see within range. The hand lasts for the duration, and it moves at your command, mimicking the movements of your own hand.


246	CHAPTER 7 I SPELLS
The hand is an object that has AC 20 and Hit Points equal to your Hit Point maximum. If it drops to 0 Hit Points, the spell ends.The hand doesn't oc· cupy its space.
When you cast the spell and as a Bonus Action on your later turns, you can move the hand up to 60 feet and then cause one of the following effects:
Clenched Fist. The hand strikes a target within 5 feet of it. Make a melee spell attack. On a hit, the target takes Sd8 Force damage.
Forceful Hand. The hand attempts to push a Huge or smaller creature within 5 feet ofit. Thetarget must succeed on a Strength saving throw, or tbe hand pushes the target up to 5 feet plus a number of feet equal to five times your spellcasting ability modifier. The hand moves with the target, remain· ing within 5 feet of it.
Grasping Hand. The hand attempts to grapple a
Huge or smaller creature within 5 feet of it. The target must succeed on a Dexterity saving throw, or the target has the Grappled condition. with an escape DC equal to your spell save DC. While the hand grapples the target, you can take a Bonus Action to cause the band to crush it, dealing Blud· geoning damage to the target equal to 4d6 plus your spellcasting ability modifier.
Interposing Hand. The hand grants you Half Cover against attacks and other effects that originate from its space or that pass through it. In addi· tion, its space counts as Difficult Terrain for your enemies.
Using a Higher-Level Spell Slot. The damage of the Clenched Fist increases by 2d8 and the damage of the Grasping Hand increases by 2d6 for each spell slot level above 5.

BLADE BARRIER
Level 6 Evocation (Cleric)
Casting Time: Action Range: 90 feet Components: V, S
Duration: Concentration, up to 10 minutes
You create a wall of whirling blades made of magi· cal energy. The wall appears within range and lasts for the duration. You make a straight wall up to 100 feet long, 20 feet high, and 5 feet thick, or a ringed wall up to 60 feet in diameter, 20 feet high, and 5 feet thick.The wall provides Three-QuartersCover, and its space is Difficult Terrain.
Prny creature in the wall's space makes a Dexterity saving throw, taking 6dl0 Force damage on a failed save or half as much damage on a successful one. A creature also makes that save ifit enters the wall's space or ends it turn there. A creature makes that save only once per turn.

BLADE WARD
Abjuration Cantrip (Bard, Sorcerer,Warlock, Wizard)
Casting Time: Action Range: Self Components: V, S
Duration: Concentration, up to 1 minute
Whenever a creature makes an attack roll against you before the spell ends, the attacker subtracts ld4 from the attack roll.

BLESS
uvel 1 Enchantment (Cleric, Paladin)
Casting Time: Action
Range: 30 feet
Components: V, S, M (a Holy Symbolworth 5+ GP)
Duration: Concentration, up to 1 minute
You bless up to three creatures within range. Whenever a target makes an attack roll or a saving throw before the spell ends, the target adds ld4 to the attack roll or save.
Usinga Higher-Level Spell Slot. You ca.n target one
additional creature for each spell slot level above 1.

BLICHT
Level 4 Necromancy (Druid, Sorcerer,Warlock,Wizard)
Casting Time: Action Range: 30 feet Components: V, S Duration: Instantaneous
A creature that you can see within range makes a Constitution saving throw, taking 8d8 Necrotic
damage on a failed save or half as much damage on a successful one. A Plant creature automatically fails the save.
Alternatively, target a nonmagical plant that isn't a creature, such as a tree or shrub. It doesn't make a save; it simply withers and dies.
Using a Highe,·-Level Spell Slot.The damage in-creases by ld8 for each spell slot level above 4.

BLINDING SMJTE
Level3 Evocation (Paladin)
Casting Time: Bonus Action, which you take immedi-ately after hitting a creature with a Melee weapon or an Unarmed Strike
Range: Self Component: V Duration: 1 minute
The target hit by the strike takes an extra 3d8 Radi· ant damage from the attack. and the target has the
CHAPTER 7 I SPELLS	24-7
Blinded conditioo until the spell ends. At the end of each of its turns, the Blinded target makes a Consti-tution saving throw, ending the spell on itself on a success.
Using a Higher-Level Spell Slot.The extra damage increases by Jd8 for each spell slot level above 3.

BUN ONESS/0.EAFNESS
Level 2 Transmutation (Bard,Cleric, Sorcerer,Wizard)
Casting Time: Action Range: 120 feet Components: V Duration: 1 minute
One creature that you can see within range must succeed on a Constitution saving throw, or it has the Blinded or Deafened condition (your choice) for the duration. At the end of each of its turns, the target repeats the save, ending the spell on itself on asuccess.
Using a Higher-Leve/ Spell Slot. You can target one additional creature for each spell slot level above 2.

BLINK
Level 3 Transmutation (Sorcerer, Wizard)
Casting Time: Action Range: Self Components: V, S Duration: 1 minute
Roll ld6 at the end of each of your turns for the du-ration. On a roll of 4-6, you vanish from your cur-rent plane of existence and appear in the Ethereal Plane (the spell ends instantly if you are already on that plane). While on the Ethereal Plane, you can perceive the plane you left, which is cast in shades of gray, but you can't seeanything there more than 60 feet away. You can affect and be affected only by other creatures on the Ethereal Plane, and crea-tures on the other plane can·t perceive you unless they have a special ability that lets them perceive things on the Ethereal Plane.
You return to the other plane at the start of your next turn and when the spell ends if you are on the Ethereal Plane. You return to an unoccupied space of your choice that you can see within 10 feet of the space you left. If no unoccupied space is available within that range, you appear in the nearest unoc-cupied space.

BLUR
Level 2 lllusion (Sorcerer, Wizard)
Casting Time: Action Range:Self Components: V
Duration: Concentration, up to 1 minute
Your body becomes blurred. For the duration, any creature has Disadvantage on attack rolls against you. An attacker is immune to this effect if it per-ceives you with Bliodsight or Truesight.

BURNING HANDS
Level J Evocation (Sorcerer, Wizard)
Casting Time: Action Range: Self Components: V, S Duration: Instantaneous
A thin sheet of flames shoots forth from you. Each creature in a IS-foot Cone makes a Dexterity saving throw, taking 3d6 Firedamage on a failed save or half as much damage on a successful one.
Flammable objects in the Cone that aren't being worn or carried start burning.
Using a Higher-Level Spell Slot. The damage in· creases by td6 for each spell slot level above I.

CALL LIGHTNING
Level 3 Conjuration (Druid)
Casting Time: Action Range: 120 feet Components: V, S
Duration: Concentration, up to 10 minutes
Astorm cloud appears at a point within range that you can see above yourself. It takes the shape of a Cylinder that is JO feet tall with a 60-foot radius.
When you cast the spell,choose a point you can see under the cloud. A lightning bolt shoots from the cloud to that point. Each creature within S feet of that point makes a Dexterity saving throw, tak-ing 3d10 Lightning damage on a failed save or half as much damage on a successful one.
Until the spell ends, you can take a Magic action to call down lightning in that way again, targeting the same point or a different one.
If you're outdoors in a storm when you cast this spell, the spell gives you control over that storm in· stead of creating a new one. Under such conditions, the spell's damage increases by ldlO.
Using a Higher-Level Spell Slot. The damage in· creases by ld10 for each spell slot level above 3.




?4-8	CHAPTER 7 I SPELLS




CALM EMOTIONS
Level 2 Enchantment (Bard, Cleric)
Casting Time: Action Range: 60 feet Components: V, S
Duration: Concentration, up to l minute
Each Humanoid in a 20-foot·radiusSphere centered on a point you choose within range must succeed on a Charisma saving throw or be affected by one of the following effects (choose for each creature):
    • The creature has Immunity to the Charmed and Frightened conditions until the spell ends. If the creature was already Charmed or Frightened, those conditions are suppressed for the duration.
    • The creature becomes Indifferent about crea-tures of your choice that it's Hostile toward. This indifference ends if the target takes damage or witnesses its allies taking damage. When the spell ends, the creature's attitude returns to normal.

CHAIN LtCHTNINC
Level 6 Evocatfon (Sorcerer, Wizard)
Casting Time: Action
Range: 150 feet
Components: V, S, M (three silver pins) Duration: Instantaneous
You launch a lightning bolt to,vard a target you can see within range.Three bolts then leap from that target to as many as three other targets of your choice, each of which must be within 30 feet of the first target. A target can be a creature or an object and can be targeted by only one of the bolts.
Each target makes a Dexterity saving throw. tak· ing 10d8 Lightning damage on a failed save or half as much damage on a successful one.
Usinga Higher-Level Spell Slot. One additional bolt leaps from the first target lo another target for each spell slot level above 6.

CHARM MONSTER
Level 4 Enchantment (Bord, Druid,Sorcerer. Warlock, Wizard)
Casting Time: Action Range: 30 feet Components: V, S Duration: l hour
One creature you can see within range makes a Wisdom saving throw, It doesso with Advantage if you or your allies are fighting it. On a failedsave, the target has the Charmed condition until the
spell ends or until you or your allies damage it. The Charmed creature is Friendly to you. When the spell ends, the target knows it was Charmed by you.
Using a Higher-Level Spell Slot. You can target one additional creature for each spell slot level above 4.

CHARM PERSON
Level J Enchantment (Bard, Druid,Sorcerer, Warlock, Wizard)
Casting Time: Action Range: 30 feet Components: V, S Duration: l hour
One Humanoid you can see within range makes a Wisdom saving throw. It doesso with Advantage if you or your allies are fighting it. On a failed save. the target has the Charmed condition until the spell ends or until you or your allies damage it. The Charmed creature is Friendly to you. When the
spell ends, the target knows it wasCharmed by you.
Usinga Higher-Level Spell Slot. You can target one additional creature for each spell slot level above I.

CHILL TOUCH
Necromancy Cantrip (Sorcerer. Warlock,Wizard)
Casting Time: Action Range: Touch Components: V, S Duration: Instantaneous
Channeling the chill of the grave, make a melee spell attack against a target within reach. On a hit, the target takes ldlO Necrotic damage, and it can't regain Hit Points until the end of your next turn.
Contrip Upgrade. The damage increases by ldl0 when you reach levels 5 (2d10). II (3d10). and 17 (4dl0).

CHROMATIC ORB
Level I Evocation (Sorcerer, Wizard)
Ca.sting Time: Action
Range: 90 feet
Components: V, S, M (a diamond worth 50+ GP) Duration: Instantaneous
You hurl an orb of energy at a target within range. Choose Acid, Cold, Fire, Lightning, Poison. or Thun-der for the type of orb you create, and then make a ranged spell attack against the target. On a hit. the target takes 3d8 damage of the chosen type.
If you roll the same number on two or more of the d8s, the orb leaps to a different target of your choice within 30 feet of the target. Make an attack
CHAPTER 7 I SPELLS	249



































roll against the new target, and make a new damage roll. The orb can't leap again unless you cast the spell with a level 2+ spell slot.
Usinga Higher-Level Spell Slot. The damage in-
creases by ld8 for each spell slot level above 1. The orb can leap a maximum number of times equal to the level of the slot expended, and a creature can be targeted only once byeach casting of this spell.


CIRCLE OF DEATH
Level 6 Necromancy (Sorcerer. Warlock, Wizard)
Casting Time: Action
Range: 150 feet
Components: V, S, M (the powder of a crushed black pearl worth 500+ GP)
Duration: Instantaneous
Negative energy ripples out in a 60-foot-radius Sphere from a point you choose within range. Each creature in that area makes a Constitution saving throw, taking 8d8 Necrotic damage on a failed save or half as much damage on a successful one.
Using a Higher-Level Spell Slot.The damage in· creases by 2d8 for each spell slot level above 6.







































CIRCLE OF POWER
Level 5 Abjuration (Cleric, Paladin, Wizard)
Casting Time: Action Range: Self Components: V
Duration: Concentration, up to 10 minutes
An aura radiates from you in a 30-foot Emanation for the duration. While in the aura. you and your al-lies have Advantage on saving throws against spells and other magical effects. When an affected crea-ture makes a saving throw against a spell or magical effect that allows a save to take only half damage, it takes no damage if it succeeds on the save.


CLAIRVOYANCE
Level 3 Divination (Bard,Cleric, Sorcerer,Wizard)
Casting Time: 10 minutes Range: 1 mile
Components: V, S, M (a focus worth 100+ GP, either a
jeweled horn for hearing or a glass eye for seeing) Duration: Concentration, up to 10 minutes
You create an Invisible sensor withfo range in a location familiar to you (a place you have visited




250	CHAPTER 7 I SPELLS
or seen before) or in an obvious location that is unfamiliar to you (such as behind a door, around a corner, or in a grove of trees). The intangible, invul· nerable sensor remains inplace for the duration.
When you cast the spell, choose seeing or hearing. You can use the chosen sensethrough the sensor as if you were in its space. As a Bonus Action, you can switch between seeingand hearing.
A creature that sees the sensor (such as a creature benefiting from See Invisibility or Truesight) sees a luminous orb about the size of your fist.

CLONE
Level 8 Necromancy (Wizar'd)
Casting Time: 1 hour Range:Touch
Components: V, S, M (a diamond worth 1,000+ GP, which the spell consumes, and a sealable vessel worth 2,000+ GP that is large enough to hold the creature being cloned)
Duration: Instantaneous
You touch a creature or at least I cubic inch of its flesh. An inert duplicate of that creature forms inside the vessel used in the spell's castingand fin-ishes growing after 120 days; you choose whether the finished clone is the same age as the creature or younger. The clone remains inert and endures indef· initely while its vessel remains undisturbed.
If the original creature dies after the clone fin-ishes forming. the creature's soul transfers to the clone if the soul is free and willing to return. The clone is physically identical to the original and has the same personality, memories, and abilities. but none of the original's equipment. The creature's original remains. if any. become inert and can't be revived, since the creature's soul is elsewhere.

CLOUDKILL
Level 5 Conjuration (Sorcerer, Wizard)
Casting Time: Action Range: 120 feet Components: V, S
Duration: Concentration, up to 10 minutes
You create a 20-foot-radiusSphere of yellow-green fogcentered on a point within range. The fog lasts for the duration or until strong wind (such as the one created by Gustof Wind) disperses it, ending the spell. Its area is Heavily Obscured.
Each creature in the Sphere makes a Constitution saving throw, takingSd8 Poison damage on a failed save or half as mu.ch damage on a successful one. A creature must also make this save when the Sphere moves into itsspace and when it enters the Sphere
or ends its turn there. A creature makes thissave only once per turo.
The Sphere moves IO feet away from you at the start of each of your turns.
Using a Higher-Level Spell Slot. The damage in-creases by ld8 for each spell slot level above 5.

CLOUD OF DAGGERS
Level 2 Conjuration (Bard,Sorcerer, Warlock,Wizard)
Casting Time: Action
Range: 60 feet
Components: V, S, M (a sliver of glass) Duration: Concentration. up to 1 minute
You conjure spinning daggers in a 5-foot Cube centered on a point within range. Each creature in that area takes 4d4 Slashingdamage. A creature also takes this damage if it enters the Cube or ends its turn there or if the Cube moves into its space. A creature takes this damage only once per turn.
On your later turns, you can take a Magic action to teleport the Cube up to 30 feet.
Using a Higher-Level Spell Slot. The damage in· creases by 2d4 for each spell slot level above 2.

COLOR SPRAY
Level 1lllusion (Bard, Sorcerer.Wizard)
Casting Time: Action
Range: Self
Components: V, S, M (a pinch of colorful sand) Duration: Instantaneous
You launch a dazzling array of flashing, colorful light. Each creature in a 15·foot Cone originating from you must succeed on a Constitution saving throw or have the Blinded condition until the end of your next turn.

COMMAND
Level I Enchantment (Bard. Cleric, Paladin)
Casting Time: Action Range: 60 feet Components: V Duration: Instantaneous
You speak a one-word command to a creature you can see within range.The target must succeed on a Wisdom saving throw or follow the command on its next turn. Choose the command from these options:
Approach. The target moves toward you by the shortest and most direct route, ending its turn if it moves within 5 feet of you.
Drop. The target drops whatever it is holding and then ends its turn.
CHAPTER 7 J SPELLS	251
Flee. The target spends its turn moving away from you by the fastest available means.
Grovel. The target has the Prone condition and then ends its turn.
Halt. On its turn, the target doesn't move and takes no action or Bonus Action.
Using II Higher-Level Spell Slot. You can affect one additional creature for each spell slot level above I.

COMMUNE
Level 5 Divination (Cleric)
Casting Time: 1 minute or Ritual Range:Self
Components: V, S, M (incense) Duration: l minute
You contact a deity or a divine proxy and ask up to three questions that can beanswered with yes or no. You must ask your questions before the spell ends. You receive a correct answer for each question.
Divine beings aren't necessarily omniscient, so
you might receive "unclear'' as an answer if a ques· tion pertains to information that lies beyond the deity's knowledge. In a case where a one-word an-swer could be misleading or contrary to the deity's interests. the DM might offer a short phrase as an answer instead.
If you cast the spell more than once before finish-ing a Long Rest, there is a cumulative 25 percent chance for each casting aA:er the first that you get no answer.

COMMUNE Wl1'H NATURE
Level 5 Divination (Druid, Ranger)
Casting Time: l minute or Ritual
Range: Self Components: V, S Duration: Instantaneous
You commune with nature spirits and gain knowl-edge of the surrounding area. In the outdoors, the spell gives you knowledge of the area within 3 miles of you. In caves and other natural underground settings, the radius is limited to 300 feet. The spell doesn't function where nature has been replaced by construction, such as in castles and settlements.
Choose three of the following facts; you learn those facts as they pertain to the spell's area:
    • Locations of settlements
    • Locations of portals to other planes of existence Location of one Challenge Rating 10+creature (DM's choice) that is a Celestial, an Elemental, a Fey, a Fiend. or an Undead
    • The most prevalent kind of plant, mineral, or Beast (you choose which to learn)
    • Locations of bodies of water
For example, you could determine the location of a powerful monster in the area, the locations of bod-ies of water, and the locations of any towns.

COMPELLED DUEL
Level I Bnchantment (Paladin)
Casting Time: Bonus Action Range: 30 feet Components: V
Duration: Concentration, up to l minute
You try to compel a creature into a duel. One crea· ture that you can see ,_,ithin range makes a Wisdom saving throw. On a failed save, the target has Disad-vantage on attack rolls against creatures other than you, and it can't willingly move to a space that is more than 30 feet away from you.
The spell ends if you make an attack roll against a
creature other than the target, if you cast aspell on an enemy other than the target, if an ally of yours damages the target, or if you end your turn more than 30 feet away from the target.

COMPREHEND LANGUAGES
Level I Divination (Bard, Sorcerer,Warlock, Wizard)
Casting Time: Action or Ritual
Range: Self
Components: V, S, M (a pinch of soot and salt) Duration: l hour
For the duration, you understand the literal mean-ing of any language that you hear or see signed. You also understand any written language that you see, but you must be touching the surface on which the words are written. It takes about 1 minute to read one page of text. This spell doesn't decode symbols or secret messages.

COMPULSION
Level 4 Enchantment (Bard)
Casting Time: Action Range: 30 feet Components: V, S
Duration: Concentration, up to l minute
Each creature of your choice that you can see within range must succeed on a Wisdom saving throw or have the Charmed condition until the spell ends.


252	CHAPTŁR 7 I SPELLS



































For the duration, you can take a Bonus Action to designate a direction that is horizontal to you. Each Charmed target must use as much of its movement as possible to move in that direction on its next turn, taking the safest route. Aller moving in this way, a target repeats the save, ending the spell on itself on a success.


CONE OF COLO
Level 5 Evocation (Druid, Sorcerer,Wizard)
Casting Time: Action Range: Self
Components: V, S, M (a small crystal or glass cone) Duration: Instantaneous
You unleash a blast of cold air. Each creature in a 60-foot Cone originating from you makes a Consti· tution saving throw, taking 8d8 Cold damage on a failed save or half as much damage on a successful one. Acreature killed by this spell becomes a frozen statue until it thaws.
Usinga Higher-Level Spell Slot. The damage in•
creases by ld8 for each spell slot level above 5.


CONFUSION
Level 4 Enchantment (Bard. Druid, Sorcere1; Wizard)
Casting Time: Action Range: 90 feet
Components: V, S, M (three nut shells) Duration: Concentration, up to 1 minute
Each creature in a 10-foot•radius Sphere centered on a point you choose within range must succeed on a Wisdom saving throw, or that target can't take Bonus Actions or Reactions and must roll ld\O at the start of each of its turns to determine its behav· ior for that turn, consulting the table below.
ldlO  Behavior for the Turn
1  The target doesn't take an action, and it uses all its movement to move. Roll 1d4 for the di-rection: 1, north; 2, east; 3, south; or 4, west.
2-6 The target doesn't move or take actions.
7-8	The target doesn't move, and it takes the At-tack action to make one melee attack against a random creature within reach. If none are within reach, the target takes no action.
9-10 The target chooses its behavior.
CHAPTER 7 I SPELLS	253
At the end of each of its turns, an affected tar-get repeats the save, ending the spell on itself on a success.
Using a Higher-Level Spell Slot. The Sphere's radius increases by 5 feet for each spell slot level above 4.

CONJURE ANIMALS
Level 3 Conjuration (Druid, Ranger)
Casting Time: Action Range: 60 feet Components: V, S
Duration: Concentration, up to 10 minutes
You conjure nature spirits that appear as a Large pack of spectral, intangible animals in an unoccu-pied space you can see within range. The pack lasts for the duration, and you choose the spirits' animal form,such as wolves.serpents, or birds.
You have Advantage on Strength saving throws while you're within 5 feet of the pack, and when you move on your turn, you can also move the pack up to 30 feet to an unoccupied space you can see.
Whenever the pack moves within 10 feet of a creature you can see and whenever a creature you can see enters a space within 10 feet of the pack or ends its turn there, you can force that creature to make a Dexterity saving throw. On a failed save, the creature takes 3d!O Slashing damage. A creature makes this save only once per turn.
Using a Higher-Level Spell Slot. The damage in-creases by ld!O for each spell slot level above 3.


CONJURE BARRAGE
Level 3 Conjuration (Ranger)
Casting Time: Action
Range: Self
Components: V, S, M (a Melee or Ranged weapon worth at least l CP)
Duration: Instantaneous
You brandish the weapon used to cast the spell and conjure similar spectral weapons (or ammunition appropriate to the weapon) that launch forward and then disappear. Each creature of your choice that you can see in a 60-foot Cone makes a Dexterity saving throw, taking Sd8 Force damage on a failed save or half as much damage on a successful one.
Using a Higher-Level Spell Slot. The damage in-creases by ld8 for each spell slot level above 3.


CONJURE CELESTIAL
Level 7Conjuration (Cleric)
Casting Time: Action Range: 90 feet Components: V, S
Duration: Concentration, up to 10 minutes
You conjure a spirit from the Upper Planes, which manifests as a pillar of light in a IQ-foot-radius, 40-foot-high Cylinder centered on a point within range. For each creature you can see in the Cylin-der, choose which of these lights shines on it:
Healing Light. The target regains Hit Points equal to 4d12 plus your spellcasting ability modifier.
Searing Light. The target makes a Dexterity saving throw, taking 6d12 Radiant damage on a failed save or half as much damage on a successful one.
Until the spell ends. Bright Light fills the Cylinder, and when you move on your turn, you can also move the Cylinder up to 30 feet.
Whenever the Cylinder moves into the space of a creature you can see and whenever a creature you can see enters the Cylinder or ends its turn there, you can bathe it in one of the lights. A creature can be affected by this spell only once per turn.
Using a Higher-Level Spell Slot. The healingand damage increase by 1dl2 for each spell slot level above 7.


CONJURE ELEMENTAL
Level 5 Conjuration (Druid,Wizard)
Casting Time: Action Range: 60 feet Components: V, S
Duration: Concentration, up to 10 minutes
You conjure a Large. intangible spirit from the Ele-mental Planes that appears in an unoccupied space within range. Choose the spirit's element, which determines its damage type: air (Lightning), earth (Thunder), lire (Fire), or water (Cold).The spirit lasts for the duration.
Whenever a creature you can see enters the spirit's space or starts its turn within 5 feet of the spirit. you can force that creature to make a Dex-teritysaving throw if the spirit has no creature Restrained. On failed save, the target takes 8d8 damage of the spirit's type. and the target has the Restrained condition until the spell ends. At the start of each of its turns, the Restrained target re-peats the save. On a failed save, the target takes 4d8 damage of the spirit's type. On a successful save, the target isn't Restrained by the spirit.
Using a Higher-Level Spell Slot. The damage in-creases by 2d8 for each spell slot level above 5.

254	CHAPTER 7 I SPELLS

CONJURE F'EY
Level 6 Conjuration (Druid)
Casting Time: Action Range: 60 feet Components: V, S
Duration: Concentration, up to 10 minutes
You conjure a Medium spirit from the Feywild in an unoccupied space you can see within range. The spirit lasts for the duration. and it looks like a Fey creature of your choice. When the spirit appears. you can make one meleespell attack against a crea-ture within 5 feet of it. On a hit, the target takes Psychic damage equal to 3dl2 plus your spellcasting ability modifier, and the target has the Frightened condition until the start of your next turn, with both you and the spirit as the source of the fear.
As a Bonus Action on your later turns, you can teleport the spirit to an unoccupied space you can see within 30 feet of the space it left and make the attack against a creature within 5 feet of it.
Using a Higher-Level Spell Slot.The damage in-creases by 2dl2 for each spell slot level above 6.

CONJURE MINOR ELEMENTALS
Leve/ 4 Conjuration (Druid,Wizard)
Casting Time: Action Range: Self Components: V, S
Duration: Concentration, up to 10 minutes
You conjure spirits from the Elemental Planes that flit around you in a IS-foot Emanation for the dura-tion. Until the spell ends, any attack you make deals an extra 2d8 damage when you hit a creature in the Emanation. This damage is Acid, Cold, Fire, or Lightning (your choice when you make the attack).
In addition, the ground in the Emanation is Diffi-cult Terrain for your enemies.
Usinga Higher-Level Spell Slot.The damage in-creases by 2d8 for each spell slot level above 4..

CONJURE VOLLEY
Level 5 Conjuration (Ranger)
Casting Time: Action Range: 150 feet
Components: V, S, M (a Melee or Ranged weapon worth at least 1 CP)
Duration: Instantaneous
You brandish the weapon used to cast the spell and choose a point within range. Hundreds of similar spectral weapons (or ammunition appropriate to the weapon) fall in a volley and then disappear.
Each creature of your choice that you can see in a 40-foot-radius, 20-foot-high Cylinder centered on that point makes a Dexterity saving throw. A crea-ture takes 8d8 Force damage on a failed save or half as much damage on a successful one.

CONJURE WOODLAND BEINGS
Level 4 Conjuration (Druid, Ranger)
Casting Time: Action Range: Self Components: V, S
Duration: Concentration, up to 10 minutes
You cortjure nature spirits that flit around you in a 10-foot Emanation for the duration. Whenever the Emanation enters the space of a creature you can see and whenever a creature you can see enters the Emanation or ends its turn there, you can force that creature to make a Wisdom saving throw. The crea-ture takes Sd8 Force damage on a failed save or half as much damage on a successful one. A creature makes thissave only once per turn.
In addition, you can take the Disengage action as a Bonus Action for the spell's duration.
Usinga Higher-Level Spell Slot. The damage in-creases by!d8 for each spell slot level above 5.

CONTACT OTHER PLANE
Level 5 Divination (Warlock,Wizard)
Casting Time: 1 minute or Ritual Range: Self
Components: V Duration: 1 minute
You mentally contact a demigod, the spirit of a
long-dead sage, or some other knowledgeable entity from another plane. Contacting this otherworldly intelligence can break your mind. When you cast this spell, make a DC 15 Intelligence saving tnrow. On a successful save, you can ask the entity up to five questions. You must ask your questions before the spell ends. The OM answers each question with one wo_rd, such as0yes/' "no," "maybe,'' "never,'' "ir... relevant," or "unclear" (if the entity doesn't know the answer to the question). If a one-word answer would be misleading, the OM might instead offer a short phrase as an answer.
On a failed save, you take 6d6 Psychic damage and have the Incapacitated condition until you fin-ish a Long Rest. A Greater Restoration spell cast on you ends this effect.






CHAPTER 7 I SPELLS	255
CONTAGION
Level S Necromancy (Cleric, Druid)
Casting Time: Action Range:Touch Component: V, S Duration: 7 days
Your touch inflicts a magical contagion. The target must succeed on a Constitution saving throw or take lld8 Necrotic damage and have the Poisoned co11dition. Also, choose one ability when you cast the spell. While Poisoned, the target has Disadvan-tage on saving throws made with the chosen ability.
The target must repeat the saving throw at the end of each of its turns until it gets threesuccesses or failures. Lf the target succeeds on three of these saves, the spell ends on the target. If the target fails three of the saves, the spell lasts for 7 days on it.
Whenever the Poisoned target receives an effect that woU,ld end the Poisoned condition, the target must succeed on a Constitution saving throw, or the Poisoned condition doesn't end on it.

CONTINGENCY
Level 6 Abjuration (Wizard)
Casting Time: 10 minutes
Range: Self
Components: V, S, M (a gem-encrusted statuette of yourself worth 1,500+ GP)
Duration: 10 days
Choose a spell oflevel 5 or lower that you can cast, that has a casting time of an action, and that can target you. You cast that spell-called the contin-gent spell-as part of casting Contingency, expending spell slots for both, but the contingent spell doesn't come into effect. Instead, it takes effect when acer-tain trigger occurs. You describe that trigger when you cast the twospells. For example, a Contingency cast with Water Breathing might stipulate that Water Breathing comes into effect ,vhen you are engulfed in water or a similar liquid.
The contingent spell takes effect immediately af· ter the trigger occurs for the first time, whether or not you want it to, and then Contingency ends.
The contingent spell takes effect only on you, even if it can normally target others. You can use only one Contingency spell at a time. If you castthis spell again, the effect of another Contingency spell on you ends. Also, Contingency ends on you if its material component is ever not on your person.
CONTINUAL FLAME
Level 2 Evocation (Cleric, Druid,Wizard)
Casting Time: Action
Range: Touch
Component.s: V, S, M (ruby dust worth 50+ GP, which the spell consumes)
Duration: Until dispelled
A flame springs from an object that you touch.The effect casts Bright Light in a 20-foot radius and Dim Light for an additional 20 feet. It looks like a regular flame, but it creates no heat and consumes no fuel. The flame can becovered or hidden but not smothered or quenched.

CONTROL WATER
Level 4 Transmutation (Cleric, Druid,Wizard)
Casting Time: Action
Range: 300 feet
Components: V, S, M (a mixture of water and dust) Duration: Concentration, up to 10 minutes
Until the spell ends, you control any water inside an area you choose that is a Cube up to 100 feet on a side, using one of the followingeffects. As a Magic action on your later turns, you can repeat the same effect or choose a different one.
Flood. You cause the water level of all standing water in the area to rise by as much as 20 feet. lf you choose an area in a large body of water, you instead create a 20-foot tall wave that travels from one side of the area to the other and then crashes. Any Huge or smaller vehicles in the wave's path are carried with it to the other side. Any Huge or smaller vehicles struck by the wave have a 25 per-cent chance of capsizing.
The water level remains elevated until the spell ends or you choose a different effect. If this effect produced a wave, the wave repeats oo the start of your next turn while the flood effect lasts.
Part Water. You part water in the area and cre-
ate a trench.The trench extends across the spell's area, and the separated water forms a wall to either side. The trench remains until the spell endsor you choose a different effect. The water then slowly fills in the trench over the course of the next round un-til the normal water level is restored.
Redirect Flow. You cause flowing water in the area to move in a direction you choose, even if the wa-ter has to flow over obstacles, up walls, or in other unlikely directions. The water in the area moves as you direct it, but once it moves beyond the spell's area, it resumes its flow based on the terrain. The water conti.nues to move in the direction you chose until the spell ends or you choose a differe11t effect.


256	CHAPTER 7 J SPELLS






























Whirlpool. You cause a whirlpool to form in the center of the area, which must be at least 50 feet square and 25 feet deep. The whirlpool lasts until you choose a different effect or the spell ends. The whirlpool is 5 feet wide at the base, up to 50 feet wide at the top, and 25 feet tall. Any creature in the water and within 25 feet of the whirlpool is pulled 10 feet toward it. When a creature enters the whirl• pool for the first time on a turn or ends its turn there, it makes a Strength saving throw. On a failed save, the creature takes 2d8 Bludgeoning damage. On a successfulsave, the creature takes half as much damage. A creature can swim away from
the whirlpool only if it nrst takes an action to pull awayand succeeds on a Strength (Athletics) check against your spell save DC.

CONTROL WEATHER
level 8 Transmutation (Cleric, Druid, Wizard)
DM. You can change precipitation, temperature, and wind. It takes ld4 • 10 minutes for the new conditions to take effect Once theydo so. you can change the conditions again. When the spell ends, the weather gradually returns to normal.
When you change the weather conditions, nnd a current condition on the following tables and change its stage by one, up or down. When chang-ing the wind, you can change its direction.

PRECIPITATION
Stage  Condition
    1 Clear
    2 Light clouds
    3 Overcast or ground fog
    4 Rain, hail, or snow
    5 Torrential rain, driving hail, or blizzard
Cast.ing Time: 10 minutes Range: Self
Components: V, S, M (burning incense) Duration: Concentration, up to 8 hours
You take control of the weather within 5 miles of you for the duration. You must be outdoors to cast thisspeU, and it endsearly if you go indoors.
When you cast the spell, you change the current weather conditions, which are determined by the
TEMPERATURE
WINO
CH APTER. 7 I SPELLS	257
CORDON OF ARROWS
Level 2 Transmutation (Ranger)
Casting Time: Action
Range: Touch
Components: V, S, M (an ornamental braid) Duration: 8 hours
You touch up to four nonmagical Arrows or Bolts and plant them in the ground in your space. Until the spell ends, the ammunition can't be physically uprooted, and whenever a creature other than you enters a space within 30 feet of the ammunition for the first time on a turn or ends its turn there, one piece of ammunition flies up to strike it. The crea-ture must succeed on a Dexterity saving throw or take 2d4 Piercing damage. The piece of ammunition is then destroyed.The spell ends when none of the ammunition remains planted in the ground.
When you cast this spell, you can designate any creatures you choose, and the spell ignores them.
Usinga Higher-Level Spell Slot. The amount of am-munition that can be affected increases by two for each spell slot level above 2.

COUNTERSPELL
Level 3 Abjuration (Sorcerer, Warlock,Wizard)
Casting Time: Reaction, which you take when you see a creature within 60 fe.et of yourself casting a spell with Verbal, Somatic, or Material components
Range: 60 feet Components: S Duration: Instantaneous
You attempt to interrupt a creature in the process of castinga spell.The creature makes a Constitu-tion saving throw. On a failed save, the spell dissi-pates with no effect, and the action, Bonus Action, or Reaction used to cast it is wasted. If that spell was cast with a spell slot, the slot isn't expended.

CREATE FOOD AND WATER
Level 3 Conjuration (Cleric, Paladin)
Casting Time: Action Range: 30 feet Components: V, S Duration: Instantaneous
You create 45 pounds of food and 30 gallons of fresh water on the ground or in containers within range-both useful in fending off the hazards of malnutrition and dehydration. The food is bland but nourishing and looks like a food of your choice, and the water is clean. The food spoils aA:er 24 hours if uneaten.
CREATE OR DESTROY WATER
Level1 Transmutation (Cleric, Druid)
Casting Time: Action
Range: 30 feet
Components: V, S, M (a mix of water and sand) Duration: Instantaneous
You do one of the following:
Create Water. You create up to 10 gallons of clean water within range in an open container. Alter-natively, the water Falls as rain in a 30-foot Cube within range, extinguishing exposed Aames there.
Destroy Water. You destroy up to 10gallons of water in an open container within range. Alter-natively, you destroy fog in a 30-foot Cube within. range.
Usinga Higher-Level Spell Slot. You create or de-stroy 10 additional gallons of ,vater, or the size of the Cube increases by 5 feet, for each spell slot level above I.

CREATE UNDEA0
Level 6 Necromancy (Cleric,Warlock,Wizard)
Casting Time: 1 minute Range: 10 feet
Components: V, S, M (one 1SO+ GP black onyx stone for each corpse)
Duration: Instantaneous
Youcan cast this spell only at night. Choose up to three corpses of Medium or Small Httmanoids within range. Each one becomes a Ghoul under your control (see the Monster Manual for its stat block).
As a Bonus Action on each of your turns, you can mentally command any creature you animated with thisspell if the creature is within 120 feet of you (if you control multiple creatures, you can command any of them at the same time, issuing the same com-mand to them). You decide what action the creature will take and where it will move on its next turn, or you can issue a general command, such as to guard a particular place. If you issue no commands, the creature takes the Dodge action and moves only to avoid harm. Once given an order, the creature con-tinues to follow the order until its task is complete.
The creature is under your control for 24 how·s, aA:er which it stops obeying any command you've given it. To maintain control of the creature for another 24 hours, you must cast thisspell on the creature before the current 24-hour period ends. This use of the spell reasserts your control over up to three creatures you have animated with thisspell rather than animating new ones.


?58	CHAPTER 7 I SPELLS
Using a Higher-Level Spell Slot. If you use a level 7 spell slot, you can animate or reassert control over four Ghouls. If you use a level 8 spell slot, you can animate or reassert control over five Ghouls or two Ghasts or Wights. 1f you use a level 9 spell slot, you can animate or reassert control over six Ghouls, three Ghasts or Wights, or two Mummies.See the Monster Manual for these stat blocks.


CREATION
Level 5 Illusion (Sorcerer, Wizard)
Casting Time: 1 minute Range: 30 feet
Components: V, S, M (a paintbrush) Duration: Special
You pull wisps of shadow material from the Shad-owfell to create an object within range. It is either an object of vegetable matter (soft goods, rope, wood, and the like) or mineral matter (stone, crys· tal, metal. and the like). The object must be no larger than a 5-foot Cube, and the object must be of a form and material that you have seen.
The spell's duration depends on the object's ma-terial, as shown in the Materials table. If the object is composed of multiple materials, use the shortest duration. Using any object created by this spell as another spell's Material component causes the other spell to fail.
MATERIALS
each of its turns to make a melee attack against a creature other than itself that you mentally choose. The target can act normally on its turn if you choose no creature or if no creature is within its reach. The target repeats the save at the end of each of its turns, ending the spell on itself on a success.
On your later turns, you must take the Magic ac• tion to maintain control of the target, or the spell ends.

CRUSADER'S MANTLE.
Level 3 Evocation (Paladin)
Casting Time: Action Range: Self Components: V
Duration: Concentration, up to l minute
You radiate a magical aura in a 30-foot Emanation.
While in the aura, you and your allies each deal an extra 1d4 Radiant damage when hitting with a weapon or an Unarmed Strike.

CURE WOUNDS
Level 1 Abjuration (Bard,Cleric, Druid, Paladin, Ranger)
Casting Time: Action Range: Touch Components: V, S Duration: Instantaneous
A creature you touch regains a number of Hit
Material Vegetable matter Stone or crystal Precious metals
Duration
24 hours
12 hours
1 hour
Points equal to 2d8 plus your spellcasting ability modifier.
Using a Higher-Level Spell Slot. The healing in-creases by 2d8 for each spell slot level above l.
Gems	10 minutes
Adamantine or mithral	1 minute
Using a Higher-Level Spell Slot. The Cube increases byS feet for each spell slot level above 5.

CROWN OF MADNESS
Level 2 Enchantment (Bard, Sorcerer,Wadock,Wizard)
Casting Time: Action Range: 120 feet Components: V, S
Duration: Concentration, up to 1 minute
One creature that you can see within range must succeed on a Wisdom saving throw or have the Charmed condition for the duration. The creature succeeds automatically iFit isn't Humanoid.
A spectral crown appears on the Charmed target's head, and it must use its action before moving on
DANCING LIGHTS
Tllusion Cantrip (Bard, Sorcerer, Wizard)
Casting Time: Action
Range: 120 feet
Components: V, S, M (a bit of phosphorus) Duration: Concentration, up to 1 minute
You create up to four torch-size lights within range, making them appear as torches. lanterns, or glow• ing orbs that hover for the duration. Alternatively. you combine the four lights into one glowing Me· dium form that is vaguely humanlike. Whichever form you choose, each light sheds Dim Light in a
JO-foot radius.
As a Bonus Action, you can move the lights up to 60 feet to a space within range. A light must be
within 20 feet of another light created by this spell, and a light vanishes if it exceeds the spell's range.
CHAP'TER 7 I SPELLS	259








































DARKNESS
Level 2 Evocation (Sorcerer, Warlock, Wizard)
Casting Time: Action Range: 60 feet
Components: V, M (bat fur and a piece of coal) Duration: Concentration, up to 10 minutes
For the duration, magical Darkness spreads from a point within range and fills a IS-foot-radius Sphere. Darkvision can't see through it, and nonmagical light can't illuminate it.
Alternatively,you cast the spell on an object that isn't being worn or carried, causing the Darkness to fill a 15-foot Emanation originating from that
object. Covering that object with something opaque, such as a bowl or helm, blocks the Darkness.
If any of thisspell's area overlaps with an area of Bright Light or Dim Light created by a spell of level 2 or lower, that other spell is dispelled.








































DARKVISION
Level 21\·ansmutation(Druid, Ranger, Sorcere,; Wizard)
Casting Time: Action Range:Touch
Components: V, S, M (a dried carrot) Duration: 8 hours
For the duration, a willing creature you touch has Darkvision with a range of 150 feet.


DAYLIGHT
Level3 Evocation (Cleric, Druid, Paladin, Ranger, Sorcerer)
Casting Time: Action Range: 60 feet Components: V, S Duration: 1 hour
For the duration, sunlight spreads from a point within range and fillsa 60-foot-radius Sphere.The sunlight's area is Bright Light and sheds Dim Light for an additional 60 feet.





260	CHAPTER 7 I SPELLS
Alternatively, you cast the spell on an object that isn't being worn or carried, causing the sunlight to fill a 60-foot Emanation originating from that ob-ject. Covering that object with something opaque, such as a bowl or helm, blocks the sunlight.
If any of this spell's area overlaps with an area of Darkness created by a spell of level 3 or lower, that other spell is dispelled.

DEATHWARD
Level 4 Abjuration (Cleric,Paladin)
Casting Time: Action Range:Touch Components: V, S Duration: 8 hours
You touch a creature and grant it a measure of pro• tection from death. The first time the target would drop to O Hit Points before the spell ends, the target instead drops to I Hit Point, and the spell ends.
If the spell is still in effect when the target is sub· jected to an effect that would kill it instantly with· out dealing damage, that effect is negated against the target, and the spell ends.

DELAYED BLAST frREBALL
Level 7 Evocation (Sorcerer, Wizard)
Casting Time: Action
Range: 1SO feet
Components: V, S, M (a ball of bat guano and sulfur) Duration: Concentration, up to 1 minute
A beam of yellow Iight flashes from you. then con· denses at a chosen point within range as a glowing bead for the duration. When the spell ends, the bead explodes, and each creature in a 20-foot-radius Sphere centered oa that point makes a Dexterity saving throw. A creature takes Fire damage equal to the total accumulated damage on a failed save or half as much damage on a successful one.
The spell's base damage is l 2d6, and the damage increases by ld6 whene,;,er your turn ends and the spell hasn't ended.
If a creature touches the glowing bead before the spell ends, that creature makes a Dexterity saving throw. On a failed save, the spell ends, causing the bead to explode. On a successful save, the creature can throw the bead up to 40 feet. If the thrown bead enters a creature's space or collides with a solid object, the spell ends, and the bead explodes.
When the bead explodes, Aammable objects in the explosion that aren't being worn or carried start burning.
Using aHigher-Level Spell Slot. The base damage increases by ld6 for each spell slot level above 7.

DEMIPLANE
Level 8 Conjuration (Sorcerer, Warlock, Wizard)
Casting Time: Action Range: 60 feet Components: S Duration: 1 hour
You create a shadowy Medium door on a Aat solid surface that you can see within range. This door can be opened and closed, and it leads to a demi• plane that is an empty room 30 feet in each dimen· sion, made of wood or stone (your choice).
When the spell ends, the door vanishes, and any
objects inside the demiplane remain there. Any creatures inside also remain unless they opt to be shunted through the door as it vanishes, landing with the Prone condition in the unoccupied spaces closest to the door's former space.
Each time you cast thisspell, you can create a new demiplane or connect the shadowy door to a demiplane you created with a previous casting of this spell. Additionally, if you kno,., the nature
and contents of a demiplane created by a casting of this speUby another creature, you can connect the shadowy door to that demiplane instead.


DESTRUCTIVE WAVE
Level 5 Evocation (Paladin)
Casting Time: Action Range: Self Components: V Duration: Instantaneous
Destructive energy ripples outward from you in a 30-foot Emanation. Each creature you choose in the Emanation makes a Constitution saving throw.
On a failed save, a target takes Sd6 Thunder damage and Sd6 Radiant or Necrotic damage (your choice) and has the Prone condition. On a successfulsave, a target takes half as much damage only.

DETECT EVIL AND Goon
Level IDivination (Cleric, Paladin)
Casting Time: Action Range: Self Components: V, S
Duration: Concentration, up to 10 minutes
For the duration, you sense the location of any Ab· erration, Celestial. Elemental, Fey, Fiend, or Undead within 30 feet of yourself. You also sense whether the Hallow spell is active there and, if so, where.
The spell is blocked by 1 foot of stone, dirt, or wood: 1 inch of metal; or a thin sheet of lead.
CHAPTER 7 I SPELLS	261

DETECT MAGIC
Level I Divination (Bard, Cleric, Druid, Paladin, Ranger, Sorcerer,Warlock, Wizard)
Casting Time: Action or Ritual
Range: Self Components: V, S
Duration: Concentration, up to 10 minutes
For the duration, you sense the presence of magical effects within 30 feet of yourself. If you sense such effects, you can take the Magic action to see a faint aura around any visible creature or object in the area that bears the magic, and if an effect was cre-ated bya spell, you learn the spell's school of magic.
The spell is blocked by I foot of stone, dirt, or wood; I inch of metal; or a thin sheet of lead.

DETECT POISON AND DISEASE
Level I Divination (Clerk. Druid, Paladin. Ranger)
Casting Time: Action or Ritual
Range: Self
Components: V, S, M (a yew leaf) Duration: Concentration, up to 10 minutes
For the duration, you sense the location of poisons, poisonous or venomous creatures, and magical contagions within 30 feet of yourself. You sense the kind of poison, creature, or contagion in each case.
The spell is blocked by1 foot of stone, dirt, or wood: I inch of metal; or a thin sheet of lead.

DETECT THOUGHTS
Level 2 Divination (Bard, Sorcerer, Wizard)
Casting Time: Action
Range: Self
Components: V, S, M (1 Copper Piece) Duration: Concentration, up to 1 minute
You activate one of the effects below. Until the spell ends, you can activate either effect as a Magic ac-tion on your later turns.
Sense Thoughts. You sense the presence of thoughts within 30 feet of yourself that belong to creatures that know languages or are telepathic. You don't read the thoughts, but you know that a thinking creature is present.
The spell is blocked by1 foot of stone, dirt, or wood; l inch of metal;or a thin sheet of lead.
Read Thoughts. Target one creature you can see within 30 feet of yourself or one creature within 30 feet of yourself that you detected with the Sense
Thoughts option. You learn what is most on the tar-get's mind right now. If the target doesn't know any languages and isn't telepathic, you learn nothing.
As a Magic action on your next turn. you can try to probe deeper into the target's mind. If you probe deeper. the target makes a Wisdom saving throw. On a failedsave, you discern the target's reasoning, emotions, and something that looms large in its mind (such as a worry, love, or hate). On a success-fulsave, the spell ends. Either way, the target knows that you are probing into its mind, and until you shill:your attention away from the target's mind, the target can take an action on its turn to make an Intelligence (Arcana) check against your spell save OC, ending the spell on a success.

DIMENSION DOOR
Level 4 Conjuration (Bard, Sorcerer,Warlock,Wizard)
Cast.ing Time: Action Range: 500 feet Components: V Duration: Instantaneous
You teleport to a location within range. You arrive at exactly the spot desired. It can bea place you can see, one you can visualize, or one you can describe by statingdistance and direction.such as "200 feet straight downward" or "300 feet upward to the northwest at a 45-degree angle."
You can also teleport one willing creature. The creature must be within 5 fe.et of you when you teleport. and it teleports to a space within 5 feet of your destination space.
If you, the other creature, or both would arrive in a space occupied by a creature or completely filled by one or more objects, you and any creature trav-eling with you each take 4d6 Force damage, and the teleportation fails.

DISGUISE SELF
Level I Illusion (Bard, Sorcerer,Wizard)
Casting Time: Action Range: Self Components: V, S Duration: l hour
You make yourself-including your clothing, armor, weapons, and other belongings on your person-look different until the spell ends. You can seem
    1 foot shorter or taller and can appear heavier or lighter. You must adopt a form that has the same basic arrangement of limbs as you have. Otherwise, the extent of the illusion is up to you.
The changes wrought by thisspell fail to hold up to physical inspection. For example, if you use th.is spell to add a bat to your outfit, objects pass through the hat, and anyone who touches it would feel nothing.


262	CHAPTER 7 I SPELLS











































.•.
take the Study action to inspect your appearance and succeed on an Intelligence (Investigation) check against your spell save DC.

DISINTEGRATE
Level 6 Transmutation (Sorcerer, Wizard)
Casting Time: Action
Range: 60 feet
Components: V, S, M (a lodestone and dust) Duration: Instantaneous
You launch a green ray at a target you can see within range. The target can be a creature, a non· magical object, or a creation of magical force, such as the wall created by Wall of Force.
A creature targeted by this spell makes a Dexter· ity saving throw. On a failed save, the target takes l0d6 • 40 Force damage. If this damage reduces it to O Hit Points, it and everything nonmagical it is wearing and carrying are disintegrated intogray
dust. The target can be revived only by a True Resur-rection or a Wish spell.
Thisspell automatically disintegrates a Large or smaller nonmagical object or a creation of magical force. ff such a target is Huge or larger, thisspell disintegrates a 10-foot·Cube portion of it.
Using a Higher-Level Spell Slot. The damage in• creases by 3d6 for each spell slot level above 6.
DISPEL EVIL AND GOOD
Level 5 Abjuration (Cleric, Paladin)
Casting Time: Action Range:Self
Components: V, S, M (powdered silver and iron)
Duration: Concentration, up to 1 minute
For the duration, Celestials, Elementals, Fey, Fiends, and Undead have Disadvantage on attack rolls against you. You can end the spell early by usingei-ther of the following special Functions.
Break Enchantment. As a Magic action, you touch
a creature that is possessed by or has the Charmed or Frightened condition from one or more creatures of the types above.The target is no longer pos-sessed, Charmed, or Frightened bysuch creatures.
Dismissal. As a Magic action, you target one.crea·
ture you can see within 5 feet of you that has one of the creature types above. The target must succeed on a Charisma saving throw or be sent back to its home plane if it isn't there already. If they aren't on their home plane, Undead are sent to the Shadow• fell, and Fey are sent to the Feywild.







CHAPTER 7 I SPl!LLS	263
































DISPEL MAGIC
Level 3 Abjuration (Bard,Cleric, Druid, Paladin, Ranger; Sorcerer,Warlock, Wizard)
Casting Time: Action Range: 120 feet Components: V, S Duration: Instantaneous
Choose one creature, object, or magical effect within range.Any ongoing spell of level 3 or lower on the target ends. For each ongoing spell of level 4 or higher on the target. make an ability check us-ing your spellcasting ability (DC JO plus that speJl's level). On a successful check, the spell ends.
Using a Higher-Leve/ Spell Slot. You automatically end a spell on the target if the spell's level is equal to or less than the level of the spell slot you use.

DISSONANT WH JSPERS
Level 1 Enchantment (Bard)
Casting Time: Action Range: 60 feet Components: V Duration: Instantaneous
One creature of your choice that you can see within range hears a discordant melody in its mind. The

?64-	CHAPTER 7 I SPELLS
target makes a Wisdom saving throw. On a failed save, it takes 3d6 Psychic damage and must imme-diately use its Reaction, if available, to move as far away from you as it can, using the safest route. On a successful save, the target takes half as much dam-age only.
Using a Higher-Level SpellSlot.The damage in-creases by ld6 for each spell slot level above I.

DIVINATION
Level 4 Divination (Cleric, Druid. Wizard)
Casting Time: Action or Ritual
Range: Self
Components: V, S, M (incense worth 25+ GP, which the spell consumes)
Duration: Instantaneous
This spell puts you in contact with a god or a god's servants. You ask one question about a specific goal. event, or activity to occur within 7 days. The OM offers a truthful reply, which might be a short phrase or cryptic rhyme. The spell doesn't account for circumstances that might change the answer, such as the casting of other spells.
If you cast the spell more than once before finish-ing a Long Rest, there is a cumulative 25 percent chance for each casting after the first that you get no answer.
DIVINE FAVOR
Level 1Transmutation (Paladin)
Casting Time: Bonus Action
Range: Self Components: V, S Duration: 1 minute
Until the spell ends, your attacks with weapons deaI an extra td4 Radiant damage on a hit.

D!VTNE SMITE
Level I Evocation (Paladin)
Casting Time: Bonus Action, which you take immedi-ately after hitting a target with a Melee weapon or an Unarmed Strike
Range: Self Component: V Duration: Instantaneous
The target takes an extra 2d8 Radiant damage from the attack.The damage increases by ld8 if the ta.r-get is a Fiend or an Undead.
Using a Higher-Level Spell Slot The damage in-creases by ld8 for each spell slot level above 1.

OIVINEWORD
Level7 Evocation (Cleric)
Casting Time: Bonus Action Range: 30 feet Components: V
Duration: Instantaneous
You utter a word imbued with power from the Up· per Planes. Each creature of your choice in range makes a Charisma saving throw. On a failed save, a target that has50 Hit Points or fewer suffers an effect based on its current Hit Points, as shown in the Divine Word Effects table. Regardless of its Hit Points, a Celestial, an Elemental, a Fey, or a Fiend
target that fails its save is forced back to its plane of origin (if it isn't there already) and can't return to the current plane for 24 hours byany meansshort of a Wish spell.

DIVINE WORD EFFECTS
Hit Points Effect
0-20	The target dies.
21-30	The target has the Blinded, Deafened, and Stunned conditions for 1 hour.
31-40	The target has the Blinded and Deaf-ened conditions for 10 minutes.
41-50	The target has the Deafened condition for 1 minute.
DOMINATE BEAST
Level 4 Enchantment (Druid, Ranger, Sorcerer)
Casting Time: Action Range: 60 feet Components: V, S
Duration: Concentration, up to 1 minute
One Beast you can see within range must succeed on a Wisdom saving throw or have the Charmed condition for the duration. The target has Advan-tage on the save if you or your a.llies are fighting it. Whenever the target takes damage, it repeats the save, ending the spell on itself on a success.
You have a telepathic link with the Charmed tar· get while the two of you are on the same plane of existence. On your turn, you can use this link to issue commands to the target (no action required), such as "Attack that creature," "Move over there," or "Fetch that object." The target does its best to obey on its turn. Lf it completes an order and doesn't receive further direction from you, it acts and moves as it likes, focusing on protecting itself.
You can command the target to take a Reaction but must take your own Reaction to do so.
Using a Higher-Level Spell Slot. Your Concentra-tion can last longer with a spell slotof level 5 (up to 10 minutes), 6 (up to I hour), or 7+ (up to 8 hours).

DOMINATE MONSTER
Level 8 Enchantment (Bard, Sorcerer,Warlock, Wizar·d)
Casting Time: Action Range: 60 feet Components: V, S
Duration: Concentration, up to 1 hour
One creature you can see within range must succeed on a Wisdom saving throw or have the Charmed condition for the duration. The target has Advantage on the save if you or your allies are fight· ing it. Whenever the target takes damage, it repeats the save, ending tbe spell on itself on a success.
You have a telepathic link with the Charmed tar• get while the two of you are on the same plane of existence. On your turn, you can use thi.s link to issue commands to the target (no action required), such as "Attack that creature," "Move over there," or "Fetch that object." The target does its best to obeyon its turn. If it completes an order and doesn't receive further direction from you, it acts and moves as it likes, focusing on protecting itself.
You can command the target to take a Reaction but must take your own Reaction to do so.
Using a Higher-Level Spell Slot. Your Concentra· tion can last longer with a level 9 spell slot (up to 8 hours).


CHAPTER 7 I SPELLS	?65

DOMINATE PERSON
Level 5 Encha11tment (Bard, Sorcerer, Wizard)
Casting Time: Action Range: 60 feet Components: V, S
Duration: Concentration, up to 1 minute
One Humanoid you can see within range must succeed on a Wisdom saving throw or have the Charmed condition for the duration. The target has Advantage on the save if you or your allies are fight-ing it. Whenever the target takes damage, it repeats the save, ending the spell on itself on a success.
You have a telepathic link with the Charmed tar· get while the two of you are on the same plane of existence. On your turn, you can use this link to issue commands to the target (no action required), such as "Attack that creature," "Move over there," or "F'etch that object." The target does its best to obey on its turn. If it completes an order and doesn't receive further direction from you, it acts and moves as it likes, focusing on protecting itself.
You can command the target to take a Reaction but must take your own Reaction to do so.
Using a Higher-Level Spell Slot. Your Concentra· tion can last longer with a spell slot of level 6 (up to 10 minutes), 7 (up to 1 hour), or 8+(up to 8 hours).

DRAGON'S BREATH
Level 2 Transmutation (Sorce,·er, Wizard)
Casting Time: Bonus Action Range:Touch
Components: V, S, M (a hot pepper) Duration: Concentration, up to 1 minute
You touch one willing creature, and choose Acid, Cold, Fire, Lightning, or Poison. Until the spell ends, the target can take a Magic action to exhale a IS-foot Cone. Each creature in that area makes a Dexterity saving throw, taking 3d6 damage of the
chosen type on a failed save or half as much damage on a successful one.
Usinga Higher-Level Spell Slot.The damage in-
creases by ld6 for each spell slot level above 2.

DRAWMIJ'S INSTANT SUMMONS
Level 6 Co,Jjuration (Wizard)
Casting Time: 1 minute or Ritual
Range: Touch
Components: V, S, M (a sapphire worth 1,000+ GP) Duration: Until dispelled
You touch the sapphire used in the casting and an object weighing 10 pounds or less whose longest di-mension is 6 feet or less. The spell leaves an Invisible
mark on that object and invisibly inscribes the ob-ject's name on the sapphire. Each time you cast this spell, you must use a different sapphire.
Thereafter, you can take a Magic action to speak the object's name and crush the sapphire. The ob· ject instantly appears in your hand regardless of physical or planar distances, and the speJI ends.
If another creature is holding or carrying the ob-ject, crushing the sapphire doesn't transport it, but instead you learn who that creature is and where that creature is currently located.

DREAM
Level 5 Illusion (Bard,Warlock,Wizard)
Casting Time: 1 minute
Range: Special
Components: V, S, M (a handful of sand) Duration: 8 hours
You target a creature you know on the same plane of existence. You or a willing creature you touch enters a trancestate to act as a dream messenger. While in the trance, the messenger is Incapacitated and hasa Speed of 0.
If the target is asleep, the messenger appears in the target's dreams and can converse with the tar-get as long as it remains asleep, through the spell's duration. The messenger can also shape the dream's environment, creating landscapes, objects, and other images. The messenger can emerge from the trance at any time, ending the spell. The target re-calls the dream perfectly upon waking.
If the target is awake when you cast the spell, the messenger knows it and can either end the trance (and the spell) or wait for the target tosleep, at which point the messenger enters its dreams.
You can make the messenger terrifying to the tar· get. If you do so, the messenger can deliver a mes-sage of no more than ten words, and then the target makes a Wisdom saving throw. On a failed save, the target gains no benefit from its rest, and it takes 3d6 Psychic damage when it wakes up.

DRUIDCRAFT
Transmutation Cantrip (Druid)
Casting Time: Action Range: 30 feet Components: V, S Duration: Instantaneous
Whispering to the spirits of nature, you create one of the following effects within range.
Weather Sensor. You create a Tiny, harmless sen-sory effect that predicts what the weather will be at your location for the next 24 hours. The effect might manifest as a golden orb for clear skies, a

266	CHAPTER 7 I SPELLS


A creature within a distance from a collapsing structure equal to half the structure's height makes a Dexterity saving throw. On a failed save, the crea-ture takes12d6 Bludgeoning damage, has the Prone condition. and is buried in the rubble, requiring a DC 20 Strength (Athletics) check as an action to escape. On a successfulsave, the creature takes half as much damage only.





cloud for rain, falling snowAakes for snow, and so on. This effect persists for l round.
Bloom. You instantly make a Aower blossom, a seed pod open, or a leaf bud bloom.
Sensory Effect. You create a harmless sensory ef-fect. such as falling leaves, spectral dancing fairies, a gentle breeze, the sound of an animal. or the faint odor of skunk. The effect must fit in a 5-foot Cube.
Fire Play. You light or snuff out a candle, a torch, or a campfire.

EARTHQ,UAKE
Level 8 Transmutation (Cleric, Druid, Sorcerer)
Casting Time: Action
Range: 500 feet
Components: V, S, M (a fractured rock) Duration: Concentration, up to 1 minute
Choose a point on the ground that you can see within range. For the duration, an intense tremor rips through the ground in a JOO-foot-radius circle centered on that point.The ground there is Difficult Terrain.
When you cast this spell and at the end of each of your turns for the duration, each creature on the ground in the area makes a Dexterity saving throw. On a failed save, a creature has the Prone condition, and its Concentration is broken.
You can also cause the effects below.
Fissures. A total of ld6 fissures open in the spell's area at the end of the turn you cast it. You choose the fissures' locations, which can't be under struc-tures. Each fissure is ldl0 x 10 feet deep and 10 feet wide, and it extends from one edge of the spell's area to another edge. A creature in the same space as a fissure must succeed on a Dexterity saving throw or fall in. A creature that successfully saves moves with the fissure's edge as it opens.
Structures. The tremor deals 50 Bludgeoning damage to any structure in contact with the ground in the area when you cast the spell and at the end of
    • each of your turns until the spell ends. If a structure
drops to 0 Hit Points, it collapses.
ELDRJTCH BLAST
Evocation Cantrip (Warlock)
Casting Time: Action Range: 120 feet Components: V, S Duration: Instantaneous
You hurl a beam of crackling energy. Make. a ranged spell attack against one creature or object in range. On a hit, the target takes ld10 Force damage.
Cant-rip Upgrade. The spell creates two beams at level 5. three beams at level 11. and four beams at level 17. You can direct the beams at the same target or at different ones. Make a separate attack roll for each beam.

ELEMENTALISM
TI-ansmutatio11Cantrip (Druid, Sorcerer, Wizard)
Casting Time: Action Range: 30 feet Components: V, S Duration: Instantaneous
You exert control over the elements, creating one of the following effects within range.
Beckon Air. You create a breeze strongenough to ripple cloth, stir dust, rustle leaves. and close open doors and shutters. all in a 5-foot Cube. Doors and shutters being held open by someone or something aren't affected.
Beckon Eartli. You create a thin shroud of dust or sand that covers surfaces in a 5-foot-square area, or you cause a single word to appear in your handwrit· ing in a patch of dirt or sand.
Beckon Fire. You create a thin cloud of harmless embers and colored,scented smoke in a 5-foot Cube. You choose the color and scent, and the embers can light candles, torches, or lamps in that area. The smoke's scent lingers for I minute.
Beckon Water. You create a spray of cool mist that lightly dampens creatures and objects in a 5-foot Cube. Alternatively, you create I cup of clean water either in an open container or on a surface, and the water evaporates in 1 minute.
Sculpt Element. You cause dirt, sand, fire, smoke, mist. or water that can fit in a I-foot Cube to assume a crudeshape (such as that of a creature) for I hour.
CHAPTER 7 I SPELLS	267




ELEMENTAL WEAPON
Level 3 Transmutation (Dmid, Paladin, Ranger)
Casting Time: Action Range:Touch Components: V, S
Duration: Concentration, up to 1 hour
A nonmagical weapon you touch becomes a magic weapon. Choose one of the following damage types: Acid, Cold, Fire, Lightning, or Thunder. For the du· ration, the weapon has a •I bonus to attack rollsand deals an extra ld4 damage of the chosen type ,vhen it hits.
Using a Higher-Level Spell Slot. If you use a level 5-6 spell slot, the bonus to attack rolls increases to
+2, and the extra damage increases to 2d4. If you usea level 7+ spell slot, the bonus increases to +3, and the extra damage increases to 3d4.

ENHANCE ABILITY
uvel 2Transmutation (Bard, Cleric, Druid, Ranger, Sorcerer,Wizard)
Casting Time: Action Range:Touch
Components: V, S, M (fur or a feather)
Duration: Concentration, up to 1 hour
You touch a creature and choose Strength, Dex· terity, Intelligence, Wisdom, or Charisma. For the duration, the target has Advantage on ability checks using the chosen ability.
Using a Higher-Level SpellSlot. You can target one additional creature for each spell slot level above 2. You can choose a different ability for each target.

EN LAROE/REDUCE
Level 2 Transmutation (Bard, Druid, Sorcerer,Wizard)
Casting Time: Action
Range: 30 feet
Components: V, S, M (a pinch of powdered iron) Duration: Concentration, up to l minute
For the duration, the spell enlarges or reduces a creature or an object you can see within range (see the chosen effect below). A targeted object must be neither worn nor carried. ff the target is an un· willing creature, it can make a Constitution saving throw. On a successful save, the spell has no effect.
Everything that a targeted creature is wearing and carrying changes size with it. Any item it drops returns to normal size at once. A thrown weapon or piece of ammunition returns to normal size imme· diately after it hits or misses a target.


Enlarge. The target's size increases by one cat· egory-from Medium to Large, for example. The target also has Advantage on Strength checks and Strength saving throws. The target's attacks with its enlarged weapons or Unarmed Strikes deal an extra ld4 damage on a hit.
Reduce. The target's size decreases by one cate· gory-from Medium to Small, for example. The tar· get also has Disadvantage on Strength checks and Strength saving throws. The target's attacks with its reduced weapons or Unarmed Strikes deal ld4 less damage on a hit (this can't reduce the damage below!).

ENSNARINO STRIKE
Level I Conjuration (Ranger)
Ca.sting Time: Bonus Action, which you take immedi• ately after hitting a creature with a weapon
Range:Self Components: V
Duration: Concentration, up to l minute
As you hit the target, grasping vines appear on it. and it makes a Strength saving throw. A Large or larger creature has Advantage on this save. On a railed save, the target has the Restrained condition until the spell ends. On a successfol save, the vines shrivel away, and the spell ends.
While Restrained, the target takes ld6 Piercing damage at the start of each of its turns. The target or a creature within reach of it can take an action to make a Strength (Athletics) check against your spell save DC. On a success, the spell ends.
Using a Higher-Level Spell Slot. The damage in· creases by ld6 for each spell slot level above I.


ENTANGLE
Level I Conjuration (Druid, Ranger)
Casting Time: Action Range: 90 feet Components: V, S
Duration: Concentration, up to 1 minute
Grasping plantssprout from the ground in a 20-foot square within range. For the duration, these plants turn the ground in the area into Difficult Terrain.
They disappear when the spelI ends.
Each creature (other than you) in the area when you cast the spell must succeed on a Strength sav· ing throw or have the Restrained condition until the spell ends. A Restrained creature can take an action to make a Strength (Athletics) check against your spell save DC. On a success, it frees itself from the grasping plants and is no longer Restrained by them.




268	CHAPTER 7 I SPELLS


































ENTHRALL
Level 2 Enchantment (Bard,Warlock)
Casting Time: Action Range: 60 feet Components: V, S
Duration: Concentration, up to 1 minute
You weave adistracting string of words, causing creatures of your choice that you can see within range to make a Wisdom saving throw. Any crea-ture you or your companions are fighting automati-cally succeeds on this save. On a failed save, a target has a -10 penalty to Wisdom (Perception) checks and Passive Perception until the spell ends.

ETHEREALNESS
Level 7 Conjuration (Bard, Cleric, Sorcerer,Warlock, Wizard)
Casting Time: Action Range: Self Components: V, S Duration: Up to 8 hours
You step into the border regions of the Ethereal Plane, where it overlaps with your current plane.
You remain in the Border Ethereal for the duration. During this time, you can move in anydirection. If you move up or down, every foot of movement costs an extra foot. You can perceive the plane you left. which looks gray, and you can't see anything there more than 60 feet away.
While on the Ethereal Plane, you can affect and be affected only by creatures, objects, and effects on that plane. Creatures that aren't on the Ethereal Plane can't perceive or interact with you unless a feature gives them the ability to do so.
When the spell ends, you return to the plane you left in the spot that corresponds to your space in the Border Ethereal. If you appear in an occupied space, you are shunted to the nearest unoccupied space and take Force damage equal to twice the number of feet you are moved.
This spell ends instantly if you cast it while you are on the Ethereal Plane or a plane that doesn't border it,such as one of the Outer Planes.
Usinga Higher-Level Spell Slot. You can target up to three willing creatures (including yourself) for each spell slot level above 7.The creatures must be within 10 feet of you when you cast the spell.





CHAPTER 7 I SPELLS	269






























EVARD'S BLACK TENTACLES
Level 4 Conjuration (Wizard)
Casting Time: Action
Range: 90 feet
Components: V, S, M (a tentacle) Duration: Concentration, up to 1 minute
Squirming, ebony tentacles fill a 20-foot square on ground that you can see within range. For the du-ration, these tentacles turn the ground in that area into Difficult Terrain.
Each creature in that area makes a Strength sav· ing throw. On a failed save, it takes 3d6 Bludgeon· ing damage, and it has the Restrained condition until the spell ends. A creature also makes that save if it enters the area or ends it turn there. A creature makes that save only once per turn.
A Restrained creature can take an action to make a Strength (Athletics) check against your spell save DC, ending the condition on itself on a success.

EXPED!TlOUS RETREAT
Level I Transmutatio,1(Sorcerer, Warlock,Wizard)
Casting Time: Bonus Action Range: Self
Components: V, S
Duration: Concentration, up to 10 minutes
You take the Dash action, and until the spell ends, you can take that action again as a Bonus Action.
EYEB!TE
Level 6 Necromancy (Bard, Sorcerer; Warlock, Wizard)
Casting Time: Action Range: Self Components: V, S
Duration: Concentration, up to 1 minute
For the duration, your eyes become an inky void. One creature of your choice within 60 feet of you that you can see must succeed on a Wisdom saving throw or be affected by one of the following effects of your choice for the duration.
On each of your turns until the spell ends, you can take a Magic action to target another creature but can't target a creature again if it has succeeded on a save against this casting of the spell.
Asleep. The target has the Unconscious condition. It wakes up if it takes any damage or if another creature takes an action to shake it awake.
Panicked. The target has the Frightened condition. On each of its turns, the Frightened target must take the Dash action and move away from you by the safest and shortest route available. If the target moves to a space at least 60 feet away from you where it can't see you, th is effect ends.
Sickened. The target has the Poisoned condition.




270	CHAPTER 7 I SPELLS
FABRICATE
Level 4 Transmutation (Wizard)
Casting Time: 10 minutes Range: 120 feet Components: V, S Duration: Instantaneous
You convert raw materials into products of the same material. For example, you can fabricate a wooden bridge from a clump of trees, a rope from a patch of hemp, or clothes from flax or wool.
Choose raw materials that you can see within range. You can fabricate a Large or smaller object (contained within a JO-foot Cube or eight connected 5-foot Cubes) given a sufficient quantity of mate· rial. If you're working with metal,stone, or another mineral substance, however, the fabricated object can be no larger than Medium (contained within a
5-foot Cube). The quality of any fabricated objects is based on the quality of the raw materials.
Creatures and magic items can't be created by this spell. You also can't use it to create items that require a high degree of skill-such as weapons and armor-unless you have proficiency with the type of Artisan's Tools used to craft such objects.

FAERIE FIRE
Level 1 Evocation (Bard, Druid)
Casting Time: Action Range: 60 feet Components: V
Duration: Concentration, up to 1 minute
Objects in a 20-foot Cube within range are out-lined in blue, green, or violet light (your choice). Each creature in the Cube is also outlined if it fails a Dexterity saving throw. For the duration, objects and affected creatures shed Dim Light in a 10-foot
radius and can't benefit from the Invisible condition.
Attack rolls against an affected creature or object have Advantage if the attacker can see it.

FALSE LIFE
Level 1 Necromancy (Sorcerer; Wizard)
Casting Time: Action
Range: Self
Components: V, S, M (a drop of alcohol) Duration: Instantaneous
You gain 2d4 • 4 Temporary Hit Points.
Using a Higher-Level Spell Slot. You gain 5 addi-tional Temporary Hit Points for each spell slot level above I.
FEAR
Level 3 Illusion (Bard, Sorcerer,Warlock,Wizard)
Casting Time: Action
Range: Self
Components: V, S, M (a white feather) Duration: Concentration, up to 1 minute
Each creature in a 30-foot Cone must succeed on a Wisdom saving throw or drop whatever it is holding and have the Frightened condition for the duration.
A Frightened creature takes the Dash action and moves away from you by the safest route on each of its turns unless there is nowhere to move. If the creature ends its turn in a space where it doesn't have line of sight to you, the creature makes a Wis· dom saving throw. On a successful save, the spell ends on that creature.

FEATHER FALL
Level I Transmutation (Bard, Sorcerer, Wizard)
Casting Time: Reaction, which you take when you or a creature you can see within 60 feet of you falls
Range: 60 feet
Components: V, M (a small feather or piece of down) Duration: 1 minute
Choose up to five falling creatures within range. A falling creature's rate of descent slows to 60 feet per round until the spell ends. If a creature lands before the spell ends, the creature takes no damage from the fall, and the spell ends for that creature.

FEIGN DEATH
Level 3 Necromancy (Bard,Cleric, Druid,Wizard)
Casting Time: Action or Ritual Range:Touch
Component.s: V, S, M (a pinch of graveyard dirt) Duration: 1 hour
You touch a willing creature and put it into a cata-lepticstate that is indistinguishable from death.
For the duration, the target appears dead to out· ward inspection and to spells used to determine the target's status. The target has the BUnded and Inca-pacitated conditions, and its Speed is 0.
The target also has Resistance to all damage ex-cept Psychic damage, and it has Immunity to the Poisoned condition.








CHAPTER 7 I SPELLS	271
SPIAITS SUMMONliO av F'!NO FIIMILIIIR Ttl,I([ ,oAMS INSPIAŁ0 ev TMI. MAGES WMO C.OH.JUA( TMlt"4























flND FAMILIAR
Level 1Conjuration (Wizard)
Casting Time: 1 hour or Ritual
Range: 10 feet
Components: V, S, M (burning incense worth 10+GP, which the spell consumes)
Duration: Instantaneous
You gain the service of a familiar, a spirit that takes an animal form you choose: Bat, Cat, Frog, Hawk, Lizard, Octopus, Owl, Rat, Raven, Spider, Weasel, or another Beast that has a Challenge Rating of 0. Appearing in an unoccupied space within range, the familiar has the statistics of the chosen form (see appendix B), though it is a Celestial. Fey, or Fiend (your choice) instead of a Beast. Your familiar acts independently of you, but it obeys your commands.
Telepathic Connection. While your familiar is within 100 feet of you, you can communicate with it telepathically. Additionally, as a Bonus Action, you can see through the familiar's eyes and hear what it hears until the start of your next turn, gain-ing the benefits of any special senses it has.
Finally, when you cast a spell with a range of touch, your familiar can deliver the touch. Your familiar must be within 100 feet of you, and it must take a Reaction to deliver the touch when you cast the spell.
Combat. The familiar is an ally to you and your allies. It rolls its own Initiative and actson its own turn. A familiar can't attack, but it can take other actions as normal.


















Disappearance of the Familiar. When the familiar drops to 0 Hit Points, it disappears. It reappears after you cast this spell again. As a Magic action, you can temporarily dismiss the familiar to a pocket dimension. Alternatively, you can dismiss it forever. As a Magic action while it is temporarily dismissed, you can cause it to reappear in an unoccupied space within 30 feet of you. Whenever the familiar drops to 0 Hit Points or disappears into the pocket dimen-sion, it leaves behind in its space anything it was wearing or carrying.
One Familiar Only. You can't have more than one familiar at a time. lfyou cast this speU while you have a familiar, you instead cause it to adopt a new eligible form.


FIND STEED
Level 2 Conjuration (Paladin)
Casting Time: Action Range: 30 feet Component: V, S Duration: Instantaneous
You summon an otherworldly being that appears as a loyalsteed in an unoccupied space of your choice within range. This creature uses the Otherworldly Steed stat block. lf you already have a steed from this spell, the steed is replaced by the new one.
The steed resembles a Large, rideable animal of your choice, such as a horse, a camel, a dire wolf, or an elk. Whenever you cast thespeU, choose the steed's creature type-Celestial, Fey, or Fiend-which determines certain traits in the stat block.



272	CHAPTER 7 I SPELLS
OTHERWORLDLY STEED
Large Celestial, Fey, or Fiend (Your Choice), Neutral
AC 10 + 1 per spell level
HP 5 + 10 per spell level (the steed has a number of Hit Dice [dlOs) equal to the spell's level)
Speed 60 ft., Fly 60 ft. (requires level 4+ spell)


FtNO THE PATl-l
Level 6 Divination (Bard,Cleric, Druid)
Casting Time: 1 minute Range: Self
Components: V, S, M (a set of divination tools-such
MOO SAVE
STR 18 +4 +4
INT  6 -2  -2
MOO SAVC
DEX 12 +1 +1
Wis 12 +1 +l
MOO SAVE
CON 14 +2 +2
CHA 8 -1 -1
as cards or runes-worth 100+ GP)
Duration: Concentration, up to 1 day
You magically sense the most direct physical route
Senses Passive Perception 11
languages Telepathy 1 mile (works only with you)
CR None (XP O; PB equals your Proficiency Bonus)
TRAITS	
Life Bond. When you regain Hit Points from a level l+ spell, the steed regains the same number of Hit Points if you're within 5 feet of it.
 ACTIONS	
Otherworldly Slam. Melee Attack Roll: Bonus equals your spell attack modifier, reach 5 ft. Hit: 1d8 plus the spell's level of Radiant (Celestial), Psychic (Fey), or Ne-crotic (Fiend) damage.
 BONUS ACTIONS	
Fell Glare (Fiend Only; Recharges after a Long Rest). Wisdom Saving Throw: DC equals your spell save DC, one creature within 60 feet the steed can see. Failure: The target has the Frightened condition until the end of your next turn.
Fey Step (Fey Only; Recharges after a Long Rest). The steed teleports, along with its rider, to an unoccupied space of your choice up to 60 feet away from itself.
Healing Touch (Celestial Only; Recharges after a Long Rest). One creature within 5 feet of the steed regains a number of Hit Points equal to 2d8 plus the spell's level.

Combat. The steed is an ally to you and your al-lies. In combat, it shares your Initiative count, and it functions as a controlled mount while you ride it (as defined in the rules on mounted combat). If you have the Incapacitated condition, the steed takes its turn immediately alter yours and acts inde-pendently, focusing on protecting you.
Disappearance of the Steed.The steed disappears if it drops to O Hit Points or if you die. When it dis· appears, it leaves behind anything it was wearing or carrying. If you cast this spell again, you decide whether you summon the steed that disappeared or a different one.
Using a Higher-Level Spell Slot. Use the spell slot's level for the spell's level in the stat block.
to a location you name. You must be familiar with the location, and the spell fails if you name a desti· nation on another plane of existence, a moving des· tination (such as a mobile fortress). or an unspecific destination (such as "a green dragon's lair").
For the duration. as long as you are on the same plane of existence as the destination, you know how far it is and in what direction it lies. Whenever you face a choice of paths along the way there, you know whicb path is the most direct.

FINO TRAPS
Level 2 Divination (Cleric, Druid, Ranger)
Casting Time: Action Range: 120 feet Components: V, S Duration: Instantaneous
You sense any trap within range that is within line of sight. A trap, for the purpose of this spell, in• eludes any object or mechanism that wascreated to cause damage or other danger. Thus, the spell would sense the Alarm or Glyph of Warding spell or a
mechanical pit trap, but it wouldn't reveal a natural
weakness in the Aoor. an unstable ceiling, or a hid· den sinkhole.
This spell reveals that a trap is present but not its location. You do learn the general nature of the danger posed by a trap you sense.


FINGER OF DEATH
Level 7 Necromancy (Sorcerer, Warlock, Wizard)
Casting Time: Action Range: 60 feet Components: V, S Duration: Instantaneous
You unleash negative energy toward a creature you can see within range.The target makes a Constitu· tionsaving throw, taking 7d8 + 30 Necrotic damage on a failed save or half as much damage on a suc-cessful one.
A Humanoid killed by this spell rises at the start of your next turn as a Zombie (see appendix B) that follows your verbal orders.
CHAPTER 7 I SPELLS	273

































FIREBALL
Level 3 Evocation (Sorcerer, Wizard)
Casting Time: Action Range: 150 foet
Components: V, S, M (a ball of bat guano and sulfur) Duration: Instantaneous
A bright streak Aashes from you to a point you choose within range and then blossoms with a low roar into a fiery explosion. Each creature in a
20-foot-radius Sphere centered on that point makes a Dexterity saving throw, taking 8d6 Fire damage on a failed save or half as much damage on a suc-cessfuI one.
Flammable objects in the area that aren't being worn or carried start burning.
Usinga Higher-Level Spell Slot. The damage in-creases by1d6 for each spell slot level above 3.

FIRE BOLT
Evocation Cantrip (Sorcerer, Wizard)
Casting Time: Action Range: 120 feet Components: V, S Duration: Instantaneous
You hurl a mote of fire at a creature or an object witbin range. Make a ranged spell attack against the






























target. On a hit, the target takes Jdl0 Fire damage. A Aammable object hit by this spell starts burning if it isn't being worn or carried.
Cantrip Upgrade. The damage increases by ldlO when you reach levels 5 (2d10), U (3dl0}, and 17 (4dl0).

FIRE SHIELD
Level 4 Evocation (Druid, Sorcerer,Wizard)
Casting Time: Action
Range:Self
Components: V, S, M (a bit of phosphorus or a firefly) Duration: 10 minutes
Wispy flames wreathe your body for the duration, shedding Bright Light .in a IO-foot radius and Dim Light for an additional 10 feet.
The Aames provide you with a warm shield or a chill shield, as you cboose.The warm shield grants you Resistance to Cold damage, and the chill shield grants you Resistance to Fire damage.
Ln addition. whenever a creature within S feet of you hits you with a melee attack roll, the shield
erupts with Aame. The attacker takes 2d8 Fire dam-age from a warm shield or 2d8 Cold damage from a chill shield.



274	CHAPTER 7 I SPELLS
FIRE STORM
Level 7 Evocation (Cleric, Druid, Sorcere,j
Casting Time: Action Range: 150 feet Components: V, S Duration: Instantaneous
A storm of fire appears within range. The area of the storm consists of up to ten JO-foot Cubes. which you arrange as you like. Each Cube must be contig-uous with at least one other Cube. Each creature
in the area makes a Dexterity saving throw, taking 7dl0 Fire damage on a failed save or half as much damage on a successful one.
Flammable objects in the area that aren't being worn or carried start burning.

FLAME BLADE
Level 2 Evocation (Druid, Sorcerer)
Casting Time: Bonus Action Range: Self
Components: V, S, M (a sumac leaf) Duration: Concentration, up to 10 minutes
You evoke a fiery blade in your free hand.The blade is similar in sizeand shape to a scimitar, and it lasts for the duration. If you let go of the blade, it disap-pears, but you can evoke it again as a Bonus Action.
As a Magic action, you can make a melee spell at-tack with the fiery blade. On a hit. the target takes Fire damage equal to 3d6 plus your spellcasting ability modifier.
The flaming blade sheds Bright Light in a 10-foot radius and Dim Light for an additional 10 feet.
Using a Higher-Level Spell Slot. The damage in-creases by !d6 for each spell slot level above 2.

FLAME STRIKE
Level 5 Evocation (Cleric)
Casting Time: Action Range: 60 feet
Components: V, S, M (a pinch of sulfur) Duration: Instantaneous
A vertical column of brilliant fire roars down from above. Each creature in a JO-foot-radius, 40-foot· high Cylinder centered on a point within range makes a Dexterity saving throw, taking Sd6 Fire damage and Sd6 Radiant damage on a failed save or half as much damage on a successful one.
Using a Higher-Level Spell Slot.The Fire damage and the Radiant damage increase by ld6 for each spell slot level above 5.
FLAMlNG SPHERE
Level 2 Conjuration (Druid, Sorcerer,Wizard)
Casting Time: Action Range: 60 feet
Components: V, S, M (a ball of wax)
Duration: Concentration, up to l minute
You create a 5-foot-diametersphere of fire in an un-occupied space on the ground within range. It lasts for the duration. Any creature that ends its turn within 5 feet of the sphere makes a Dexterity saving throw, taking 2d6 Fire damage on a failed save or half as much damage on a successful one.
As a Bonus Action, you can move the sphere up to 30 feet. rolling it along the ground. lf you move the sphere into a creature's space. that creature makes the save against the sphere, and the sphere stops moving for the turn.
When you move the sphere, you can direct it over barriers up to S feet tall and jump it across pits up to 10 feet wide. Flammable objects that aren't being worn or c.irried start burning if touched by the sphere, and it sheds Bright Light in a 20-foot radius and Dim Light for an additional 20 feet.
Using a Higher-Level Spell Slot. The damage in-creases byld6 for each spell slot level above 2.

FLESH TO STONE
Level 6 Transmutation (Druid,Sorcerer, Wizard)
Casting Time: Action
Range: 60 feet
Components: V, S, M (a cockatrice feather) Duration: Concentration, up to l minute
You attempt to turn one creature that you can see within range into stone. The target makes a Consti· tution saving throw. On a failed save, it has the Re-strained condition for the duration. On a successful save. its Speed is O until the start of your next turn. Constructs automatically succeed on the save.
A Restrained target makes another Constitution saving throw at the end of each of its turns. If it successfully saves against thisspell three times, the spell ends. If it fails its saves three times, it is turned to stone and has the Petrified condition for the duration. The successes and failures needn't be con-secutive; keep track of both until the target collects three of a kind.
If you maintain your Concentration on this spell for the entire possible duration, the target is Pet· rified until the condition is ended by Greater Resto-ration or similar magic.





CHAPTER 7 I SPELLS	275

FLY
Level 3 Transmutation (Sorcerer, Warlock,Wizard)
Casting Time: Action
Range: Touch
Components: V, S, M (a feather)
Duration: Concentration, up to 10 minutes
You touch a willing creature. For the duration, the target gains a Fly Speed of 60 feet and can hover. When the spell ends, the target falls if it is still aloft unless it can stop the fall.
Using a Higher-Level Spell Slot. You can target one additional creature for each spell slot level above 3.

Foo CLouo
Level1 Conjuration (Druid. Ranger, Sorcerer,Wizard)
Casting Time: Action Range: 120 feet Components: V, S
Duration: Concentration, up to l hour
You create a 20-foot·radius Sphere of fogcentered on a point within range.The Sphere is Heavily Obscured. It lasts for the duration or until a strong wind (such as one created by Gust of Wind) dis· perses it.
Using a Higher-Leve/ Spell Slot.The fog's radius increases by 20 feet for each spell slot level above l.

FORBI DDANCE
Level 6 Abjuration (Cleric)
Casting Time: 10 minutes or Ritual
Range:Touch
Components: V, S, M (ruby dust worth l,000+ GP) Duration: l day
You create a ward against magical travel that pro-tects up to 40,000 square feet of floor space to a height of 30 feet above the floor. For the duration. creatures can't teleport into the area or use portals, such as those created by the Gate spell, to enter the area. The spell proofs the area against planar travel, and therefore prevents creatures from accessing the area by way of the Astral Plane, the Ethereal Plane, the Feywild, the Shadowfell, or the Plane Shift spell.
In addition, the spell damages types of creatures that you choose when you cast it. Choose one or more of the following: Aberrations, Celestials, Ele-mentals, Fey, Fiends, and Undead. When a creature of a chosen type enters the spell's area for the first time on a turn or ends its turn there, the creature takes SdlO Radiant or Necrotic damage (your choice when you cast this spell).
You can designate a password when you cast the spell. A creature that speaks the password as it en· ters the area takes no damage from the spell.
The spell's area can't overlap with the area of another Forbiddance spell. If you cast Forbiddance everyday for 30 days in the same location, the spell lasts until it is dispelled, and the Material compo· nents are consumed on the last casting.

FORCECAGE
Level 7 Łvocation (Bard, Warlock,Wizard)
Casting Time: Action Range: l 00 feet
Components: V, S, M (ruby dust worth 1,500+ GP, which the spell consumes)
Duration: Concentration, up to l hour
An immobile. Invisible, Cube-shaped prison com-posed of magical force springs into existence around an area you choose within range. The prison can be a cage or a solid box, as you choose.
A p,·ison in the shape of a cage can be up to 20 feet on a side and is made from 1/2-inch diameter barsspaced 1/2 inch apart. A prison in the shape of a box can be up to 10 feet on a side, creating a
solid barrier that prevents any matter from passing through it and blocking anyspells cast into or out from the area.
When you cast the spell, any creature that is com-pletely inside the cage's area is trapped. Creatures only partially within the area, or those too large to fit inside it. are pushed away from the center of the area until they are completely outside it.
A creature inside the cage can't leave it by non-magical means. If the creature tries to use teleporta-tion or interplanar travel to leave, it must first make a Charisma saving throw. On a successful save, the creature can use that magic to exit the cage. On a failed save, the creature doesn't exit the cage and wastes the spell or effect. The cage also extends into the Ethereal Plane, blocking ethereal travel.
This spell can't be dispelled by Dispel Magic.

FORESIGRT
Level 9 Divination (Bard, Druid,Warlock,Wizard)
Casting Time: l minute Range:Touch
Components: V, S, M (a hummingbird feather) Duration: 8 hours
You touch a willing creature and bestow a limited ability to see into the immediate future. For the du-ration, the target has Advantage on 020 Tests. and other creatures have Disadvantage on attack rolls against it. The spell ends early if you cast it again.



?76	CHAPTER 7 I SPELLS

FOUNT OF MOONLfGHT
Level 4 Evocation (Bard, Druid)
Casting Time: Action Range: Self Components: V, S
Duration: Concentration, up to 10 minutes
A cool light wreathes your body for the duration, emitting Bright Light in a 20-foot radius and Dim Light for an additional 20 feet.
Until the spell ends, you have Resistance to Radi-ant damage, and your melee attacks deal an extra 2d6 Radiant damage on a hit.
In addition. immediately after you take damage from a creature you can see within 60 feet of your-self, you can take a Reaction to force the creature to make a Constitution saving throw. On a failed save, tbe creature has the Blinded condition until the end of your next turn.

FREEDOM OF MOVEMENT
Level 4 Abjuration (Bard,Cleric, Druid, Ranger)
Casting Time: Action
Range: Touch
Components: V, S, M (a leather strap) Duration: 1 hour
You touch a willing creature. For the duration, the target's movement is unaffected by Difficult Terrain, and spells and other magical effects can neither re· duce the target's Speed nor cause the target to have the Paralyzed or Restrained conditions. The target also has a Swim Speed equal to its Speed.
In addition, the target can spend 5 feet of move-ment to automatically escape from nonmagical restraints, such as manacles or a creature imposing the Grappled condition on it.
Using a Higher-Level Spell Slot. You can target one additional creature for each spell slot level above 4.

FRIENDS
Enchantment Cantrip(Bard,Sorcerer, Warlock,Wizard)
Casting Time: Action
Range: 10 feet
Components: S, M (some makeup) Duration: Concentration, up to 1 minute
You magically emanate a sense of friendship toward one creature you can see within range. The target must succeed on a Wisdom saving throw or have the Charmed condition for the duration. The tar-getsucceeds automatically if it isn't a Humanoid. if you're fighting it, or if you have cast this spell on it within the past 24 hours.
The spell ends early if the target takes damage or if you make an attack roll, deal damage, or force anyone to make a saving throw. When the spell ends, the target knows it was Charmed by you.

GASEOUS FORM
Level 5 Transmutation (Sorcerer, Warlock,Wizard)
Casting Time: Action
Range: Touch
Components: V, S, M (a bit of gauze) Duration: Concentration, up to 1 hour
Awilling creature you touch shape-shifts, along with everything it'swearing and carrying, into a misty cloud for the duration. The spell ends on
the target ifit drops to 0 Hit Points or ifit takes a Magic action to end the spell on itself.
While in this form, the target's only method of movement is a Fly Speed of 10 feet, and it can
hover.The target can enter and occupy the space of another creature. The target has Resistance to Bludgeoning, Piercing, and Slashing damage; it has Immunity to the Prone condition; and it has Ad-vantage on Strength, Dexterity, and Constitution saving throws. The target can pass through narrow openings, but it treats liquids as though they were solidsurfaces.
The target can't talk or manipulate objects, and any objects it was carrying or holding can't be dropped, used, or otherwise interacted with. Fi-nally, the target can't attack or cast spells.
Usinga Higher-Level Spell Slot. You can target one additional creature for each spell slot level above 3.

GATE
Level 9 Conjuration (Cleric, Sorcerer; Warlock,Wizard)
Casting Time: Action Range: 60 feet
Components: V, S, M (a diamond worth 5,000+ GP) Duration: Concentration, upto 1 minute
You conjure a portal linkingan unoccupied space you can see within range to a precise location on a different plane of existence. The portal is a circular opening, which you can make 5 to 20 feet in diam· eter. You can orient the portal in anydirection you choose. The portal lasts for the duration, and the portal's destination is visible througb it.
The portaI has a front and a back on each plane where it appears. Travel through the portal is possi• ble only by moving through its front.Anything that does so is instantly transported to the other plane, appearing in the unoccupied space nearest to the portal.
CHAPTER 7 I SPELLS	277






























Deities and other planar rulers can prevent por-tals created by this spell from opening in their pres-enceor anywhere within their domains.
When you cast this spell, you can speak the name of a specific creature (a pseudonym, title, or nick-name doesn't work). If that creature is on a plane other than the one you are on, the portal opens next to the named creature and transports it to the nearest unoccupied space on your side of the portal. You gain no special power over the creature, and it is free to act as the OM deems appropriate. It might leave, attack you, or helpyou.

GEAS
Level 5 Enchantment (Bard,Cleric, Druid, Paladin, Wizard)
Casting Time: 1 minute Range: 60 feet Components: V Duration: 30 days
You give a verbal command to a creature that you can see within range, ordering it to carry out some service or refrain from an action or a course of ac-tivity as you decide. The target must succeed on a Wisdom saving throw or have the Charmed condi-tion for the duration. The target automatically suc-ceeds if it can't understand your command.




























While Charmed, the creature takes5dl0 Psychic	.•
damage if it acts in a manner directly counter to
your command. It takes this damage no more than once each day.
You can issue any command you choose. short ofan activity that would result in certain death. Should you issue a suicidal command, the spell ends.
A Remove Cw·se,Greater Restoration, or Wish spell ends this spell.
Using a Higher-Level Spell Slot. If you use a level 7 or 8 spell slot, the duration is 365 days. If you use a level 9 spell slot, the spell lasts until it is ended by one of the spells mentioned above.

GENTLE REPOSE
Level 2 Necromancy (Cleric, Paladin, Wizard)
Casting Time: Action or Ritual Range:Touch
Components: V, S, M (2 Copper Pieces, which the spell consumes)
Duration: 10 days
You touch a corpse or other remains. F'or the dura· tion, the target is protected from decay and can't become Undead.
The spell also effectively extends the time limit on raising the target from the dead, si.nce days spent under the influence of this spell don't count against the time limit of spellssuch as Raise Dead.



?78	CHAPTER 7 I SPELLS

GrANT INSECT
Level 4 Conjuration (l)ruid)
Casting Time: Action Range: 60 feet Components: V, S
Duration: Concentration, up to 10 minutes
You summon a giant centipede, spider, or wasp (chosen when you cast the spell). It manifests in an unoccupied space you can see within range and uses the Giant Insect stat block. The form you choose determines certain details in its stat block. The creature disappears when it drops to O Hit Points or when the spell ends.
The creature is an ally to you and your allies. In combat, the creature shares your Initiative count, but it takes its turn immediately after yours. It

GIANT INSECT
Lorge Beas,, Unaligned
AC 11 + the spell's level
HP 30 + 10 for each spell level
Speed 40 ft., Climb 40 ft., Fly 40 ft. (Wasp only)
Ą00  S-A.YE	MOO SAYl	MOO ?AVt

STR 17 +3 +3	DEX13 +1 +1	CON 15 +2	+2
INT 4  -3	-3	W1s 14 +2 +2	CHA 3 -4	-4
Senses Darkvision 60 ft., Passive Perception 12 Languages Understands the languages you know CR None (XP O; PB equals your Proficiency Bonus)
TRAITS	
Spider Climb. The insect can climb difficult surfaces, including alongceilings, without needing to make an ability check.
 ACTIONS	
Multiattack. The insect makes a number of attacks equal to half this spell's level (round down).
PoisonJab. Melee Attack Roll: Bonus equals your spell attack modifier, reach 10 ft. Hit: 1d6 + 3 plus the spell's level Piercing damage plus 1d4 Poison damage.
Web Bolt (Spider Only). Ranged Attack Roll: Bonus equals your spell attack modifier, range 60 ft. Hit: 1dl0
+ 3 plus the spell's level Bludgeoning damage, and the target's Speed is reduced to O until the start of the in-sect's next turn.
 BONUS ACTIONS	
VenomousSpew (Centipede Only). Constitution Saving Throw: Your spell save DC, one creature the insect can see within 10 feet. Failure: The target has the Poisoned condition until the start of the insect's next turn.
obeys your verbal commands (no action required by you). If you don't issue any, it takes the Dodge action and uses its movement to avoid danger.
Usinga Higher-Level Spell Slot. Use the spell slot's level for the spell's level in the stat block.

GLIBNESS
Level 8 Enchantment (Bard,Warlock)
Casting Time: Action Range: Self Components: V Duration: 1 hour
Until the spell ends, when you make a Charisma check, you can replace the number you roll with a
15. Additionally, no matter what you say. magic that
would determine if you are telling the truth indi· cates that you are being truthful.

GLOBE OF INVULNERABILITY
Level 6 Abjuration (Sorcerer, Wizard)
Casting Time: Action Range:Self
Components: V, S, M (a glass bead) Duration: Concentration, up to 1 minute
An immobile, shimmering barrier appears in a 10-foot Emanation around you and remains for the duration.
Any spell of level 5 or lower cast from outside the
barrier can't affect anything within it. Such aspell can target creatures and objects within the barrier, but the spell has no effect on them. Similarly, the area within the barrier is excluded from areas of effect created bysuch spells.
Using a Higher-Level Spell Slot. The barrier blocks
spelIs of I level higher for each spell slot level above 6.

GLYPH OF WARDING
Level 3 Abjuration (Bard, Cleric, Wizard)
Casting Time: 1 hour Range: Touch
Components: V, S, M (powdered diamond worth 200+ GP, which the spell consumes)
Duration: Until dispelled or triggered
You inscribe a glyph that later unleashes a magical effect. You inscribe it either on a surface (such as a table or a section of floor) or within an object that can be closed (such as a book or chest) to conceal the glyph. The glyph can cover an area no larger
CHAPTER 7 I SPELLS	279
than 10 feet in diameter. If the surface or object is moved more than LO feet from where you cast this spell, the glyph is broken, and the spell ends without being triggered.
The glyph is nearly imperceptible and requires a successful Wisdom (Perception) check against your spell save DC to notice.
When you inscribe the glyph, you set its trigger and choose whether it's an explosive rune or aspell glyph, as explained below.
Set the Trigger. You decide what triggers the glyph when you cast the spell. For glyphs inscribed on a surface, common triggers include touching or step-pingon the glyph, removing another object cover-ing it, or approaching within a certain distance of it. Por glyphs inscribed within an object, common trig-gers include opening that object or seeing the glyph. Once a glyph is triggered, this spell ends.
You can refine the trigger so thatonly creatures of certain types activate it (for example, the glyph could be set to affect Aberrations). You can also set conditions for creatures that don't trigger the glyph, such as those who say a certain password.
E,q,losive Rune. When triggered, the glyph erupts with magical energy in a 20-foot-radiusSphere centered on the glyph. Each creature in the area makes a Dexterity saving throw.A creature takes Sd8 Acid, Cold, Fire, Lightning, or Thunder damage (your choice when you create the glyph) on a failed save or half as much damage on a successful one.
Spell Glyph. You can store a prepared spell of level 3 or lower in the glyph bycasting it as part of creating the glyph. The spell must target a single creature or a.n area. The spell beingstored has no immediate effect when cast in this way.
When the glyph is triggered, the stored spell takes effect. If the spell has a target, it targets the crea-ture that triggered the glyph. If the spell affects an area, the area is centered on that creature. If the spell summons Hostile creatures or creates harmful objects or traps, they appear as close as possible to the intruder and attack it. If the spell requires Con-centration, it lasts until the end of its full duration.
Usinga Higher-Level Spell Slot. The damage of an explosive rune increases by ld8 for each spell slot level above 3. lfyou create a spell glyph, you can store anyspell of up to the same level as the spell slot you use for the Glyph of Warding.

GOODBERRY
Level I Conjuration (Druid, Ranger)
Casting Time: Action
Range: Self
Components: V, S, M (a sprig of mistletoe) Duration: 24 hours
Ten berries appear in your hand and are infused with magic for the duration. A creature can take a Bonus Action to eat one berry. Eating a berry re-stores 1 Hit Point, and the berry provides enough nourishment to sustain a creature for one day.
Uneaten berries disappear when the spell ends.

GRASPING VINE
Level 4 Conjuration (Druid, Ranger)
Casting Time: Bonus Action Range: 60 feet Components: V, S
Duration: Concentration, up to 1 minute
You conjure a vine that sprouts from a surface in an unoccupied space that you can see within range. The vine lasts for the duration.
Make a melee spell attack against a creature within 30 feet of the vine. On a hit, the target takes 4d8 Bludgeoning damage and is pulled up to 30 feet toward the vine; if the target is Huge or smaller,
it has the Grappled condition (escape DC equal to your spell save DC). The vine can grapple only one creature at a time, and you can cause the vine to re-lease a Grappled creature (no action required).
As a Bonus Action on your later turns, you can repeat the attack against a creature within 30 feet of the vine.
Usinga Higher-Level Spell Slot. The number of creatures the vine can grapple increases by one for each spell slot level above 4.

GREASE
Level I Conjuration (Sorcerer, Wizard)
Casting Time: Action
Range: 60 feet
Components: V, S, M (a bit of pork rind or butter) Duration: 1 minute
Nonflammable grease covers the ground in a 10-foot square centered on a point within range and turns it into Difficult Terrain for the duration.
When the grease appears, each creature stand-ingin its area must succeed on a Dexterity saving throw or have the Prone condition. Acreature that enters the area or ends its turn there must also suc-ceed on that save or fall Prone.



280	CHAPTER 7 I SPELLS



































GREATER [NVISIBILlTY
Level 4 Illusion (Bard,Sorcerer,Wizard)
Casting Time: Action Range: Touch Components: V, S
Duration: Concentration, up to 1 minute
A creature you touch has the Invisible condition w,-til the spell ends.


GREATER RESTORATION
Level S Abjuration (Bard,Cleric, Druid, Paladin, Ranger)
Casting Time: Action Range:Touch
Components: V, S, M (diamond dust worth 100+ GP, which the spell consumes)
Duration: Instantaneous
You touch a creature and magically remove one of the following effects from it:
    • 1 Exhaustion level
    • The Charmed or Petrified condition
    • 	A curse. including the target's Attunement to a cursed magic item
    • Any reduction to one of the target's ability scores
    • Any reduction to the target's Hit Point maximum


GUARDIAN Of FAITH
Level 4 Conjuration (Cleric)
Casting Time: Action Range: 30 feet Components: V Duration: 8 hours
A Large spectral guardian appears and hovers for the duration in an unoccupied space that you can see within range. The guardian occupies that space and is invulnerable, and it appears in a form appro-priate for your deity or pantheon.
Anyenemy that moves to a space within 10 feet of the guardian for the first time on a turn or starts its turn there makes a Dexterity saving throw, taking 20 Radiant damage on a failed save or half as much damage on a successful one. The guardian vanishes when it has dealt a total of 60 damage.




CHAPTER 7 I SPELLS	?81
GUAR-OS AND WARDS
Level 6 Abjuration (Bard,Wizard)
Casting Time: 1 hour
Range: Touch
Components: V, S, M (a silver rod worth 10+ GP) Duration: 24 hours
You create a ward that protects up to 2,500 square feet of floor space. The warded area can be up to 20 feet tall, and you shape it as one SO-foot square, one hundred 5-foot squares that are contiguous, or twenty-five JO-foot squares that are contiguous.
When you cast thisspell, you can specify indi-viduals that are unaffected by the spell's effects. You can also specify a password that, when spoken aloud within 5 feet of the warded area, makes the speaker immune to its effects.
The spell creates the effects below within the warded area. Dispel Magic has no effect on Guards and Wards itself, but each of the followingeffects can be dispelled. If all four are dispelled, Guards and Wards ends. If you cast thespell every day for 365 days on the same area, the spell thereafter lasts un· til aU its effects are dispelled.
Corridors. Fog fills all the warded corridors, mak-ing them Heavily Obscured. In addition, at each intersection or branching passage offering a choice of direction, there is a 50 percent chance that a creature other than you believes it is going in the opposite direction from the one it chooses.
Doors. All doors in the warded area are magically locked, as if sealed by the Arcane Lock spell. In addi· tion, you can cover up to ten doors with an illusion to make them appear as plain sections of wall.
Stairs. Webs fill all stairs in the warded area from top to bottom, as in the Webspell. These strands regrow in10 minutes if they are destroyed while Guards and Wards lasts.
Other Spell Effect. Place one of the following magi-cal effects within the warded area:
    • Dancing Lights in four corridors, with a simple pro-gram that the lights repeat as long as Guards and Wards lasts
    • Magic Mouth in two locations
    • Stinking Cloud in two locations (the vapors return within 10 minutes if dispersed whHe Guards and Wards lasts)
    • Gust of Wind in one corridor or room (the wind blows continuously while the spell lasts)
    • Suggestion in one 5-foot square: any creature that enters that square receives the suggestion mentally
GUIDANCE
Divination Cantrip(Cleric, Druid)
Casting Time: Action Range:Touch Component: V, S
Duration: Concentration, up to 1 minute
You touch a willing creature and choose a skill. Un· til the spell ends, the creature adds ld4 to any abil-ity check usiag the chosen skill.

GuI DING BOLT
Level I Łvocation (Cleric)
Casting Time: Action Range: 120 feet Components: V, S Duration: 1 round
You hurl a bolt oflight toward a creature within range. Make a ranged spell attack against the target. On a hit, it takes 4d6 Radiant damage, and the next attack roll made against it before the end of your next turn has Advantage.
Usinga Higher-Level Spell Slot.The damage in• creases byld6 for each spell slot level above1.

GUST OF WIND
Level 2 Łvocation (Druid, Ranger,Sorcerer, Wizard)
Casting Time: Action Range: Self
Components: V, S, M (a legume seed)
Duration: Concentration, up to 1 minute
A Line of strong wind 60 feet longand 10 feet wide blasts from you in a direction you choose for the duration. Each creature in the Line must succeed on a Strength saving throw or be pushed 15 feet away from you in a direction following the Line. A crea• ture that ends its turn in the Line must make the same save.
Any creature in the Line must spend 2 feet of movement for every I foot it moves when moving closer to you.
The gust disperses gas or vapor, and it extin• guishes candles andsimilar unprotected flames in the area. It causes protected flames, such as those of lanterns, to dance wildly and has a 50 percent chance to extinguish them.
As a Bonus Action on your later turns, you can change the direction in which the Line blasts from you.






282	C?IA PTER 7 I SPELLS

HAIL OFTl:IORNS
Level I Conjuration (Ranger)
Casting Time: Bonus Action, which you take immedi-ately after hitting a creature with a Ranged weapon
Range: Self Components: V Duration: Instantaneous
As you hit the creature, this spell creates a rain of thorns that sprouts from your Ranged weapon or ammunition. The target of the attack and each
creature within 5 feet of it make a Dexterity saving throw, taking ldlO Piercing damage on a failed save or half as much damage on a successful one.
Usinga Higher-Level Spell Slot. The damage in-creases by1d10 for each spell slot level above I.

HALLOW
Level 5 Abjuration (Cleric)
Casting Time: 24 hours Range:Touch
Components: V, S, M (incense worth 1,000+ GP, which the spell consumes)
Duration: Until dispelled
You touch a point and infuse an area around it with holy or unholy power. The area can have a radius up to 60 feet, and the spell fails if the radius includes an area already under the effect of Hallow. The af-fected area has the followingeffects.
Hallowed Ward. Choose any of these creature types: Aberration, Celestial. Elemental, Fey, Fiend, or Undead. Creatures of the chosen types can't willingly enter the area, and any creature that is possessed by or that has the Charmed or Fright-ened condition from such creatures isn't possessed, Charmed, or Frightened by them while in the area.
Extra Effect. You bind an extra effect to the area from the list below:
Courage. Creatures of any types you choose can't gain the Frightened condition while in the area. Darkness. Darkness fills the area. Normal light, as well as magical light created by spells of a level lower than thisspell, can't illuminate the area.
Daylight. Bright light fills the area. Magical Dark-ness created by spells of a level lower than this spell can't extinguish the light.
Peaceful Rest. Dead bodies interred in the area can't be turned into Undead.
Extradimen.sional Interference. Creatures of any types you choose can't enter or exit the area using teleportation or interplanar travel.
Fear. Creatures of any types you choose have the Frightened condition while in the area.
Resistance. Creatures of any types you choose have Resistance to one damage type of your choice while in the area.
Silence. No sound can emanate from within the area, and nosound can reach into it.
Tongues. Creatures of any types you choose can communicate with any other creature in the area even if they don't sharea common language.
Vulnerability.Creatures of any types you choose have Vulnerability to one damage type of your choice while in the area.

HALLUCINATORY TERRAIN
Level 4 Illusion (Bard, Druid,Warlock,Wizard)
Casting Time: 10 minutes Range: 300 feet
Components: V, S, M (a mushroom) Duration: 24 hours
You make natural terrain in a ISO-foot Cube in range look, sound, and smell like another sort of natural terrain.Thus, open fields or a road can be made to resemble a swamp, hill. crevasse, or some other difficult or impassable terrain. A pond can be made to seem like a grassy meadow, a precipice like a gentle slope, or a rock-strewn gully like a wide and smooth road. Manufactured structures. equipment, and creatures within the area aren't changed.
The tactile characteristics of the terrain are un-changed, so creatures entering the area are likely to notice the illusion. If the difference isn't obvious
by touch, a creature examining the illusion can take the Study action to make an Intelligence (Investiga-tion) check against your spell save DC to disbelieve it. If a creature discerns that the terrain is illusory, the creature sees a vague image superimposed on the real terrain.

HARM
Level 6 Necromancy (Cleric)
Casting Time: Action Range: 60 feet Components: V, S Duration: Instantaneous
You unleash virulent magic on a creature you can see within range. The target makes a Constitution saving throw. On a failed save, it takes14d6 Ne-crotic damage, and its Hit Point maximum is re-duced by an amount equal to the Necrotic damage it took. On a successful save, it takes half as much damage only. This spell can't reduce a target's H.it Point maximum below 1.




CHAPTE.R 7) SPELLS	283

HASTE
Level 3 'Tl-ansmutation (Sorcerer, Wizard)
Casting Time: Action Range: 30 feet
Components: V, S, M (a shaving of licorice root) Duration: Concentration, up to 1 minute
Choose a willing creature that you can see within range. Until the spell ends, the target'sSpeed is doubled, it gains a +2 bonus to Armor Class, it has Advantage on Dexterity saving throws, and it gains an additional action on each of its turns. That ac· tion can be used to take only the Attack (one attack only), Dash, Disengage, Hide. or Utilize action.
When the spell ends, the target is Incapacitated and has a Speed ofO until the end of its next turn. as a wave of lethargy washes over it.

HEAL
Leve/ 6 Abjuration (Cleric, Druid)
Casting Time: Action Range: 60 feet Components: V, S Duration: Instantaneous
Choose a creature that you can see within range. Positive energy washes through the target, restor· ing70 Hit Points. This spell also ends the Blinded, Deafened, and Poisoned conditions on the target.
Using a Higher-Level Spell Slot. The healing in-creases by10 for each spell slot level above 6.

HEALING Wo·RD
Level I Abjuration (Bard, Cleric, Druid)
Casting Time: Bonus Action Range: 60 feet Components: V
Duration: Instantaneous
A creature of your choice that you can see within range regains Hit Points equal to 2d4 plus your spellcasting ability modifier.
Using a Higher-Level Spell Slot.The healing in-creases by 2d4 for each spell slot level above I.

HEAT METAL
Level 2 Transmutation (Bard, Druid)
Casting Time: Action Range: 60 feet
Components: V, S, M (a piece of iron and a flame) Duration: Concentration, up to 1 minute
Choose a manufactured metal object,such as a metal weapon or a suit of Heavy or Medium metal
armor, that you can see within range. You cause the object to glow red-hot. Any creature in physical
contact with the object takes 2d8 Fire damage when you cast the spell. Until the spell ends. you can take a Bonus Action on each of your later turns to deal this damage again if the object is within range.
If a creature is holding or wearing the object and takes the damage from it, the creature must succeed on a Constitution saving throw or drop the object if it can. If it doesn't drop the object, it has Disadvan-
tage on attack rolls and ability checks until the start of your next turn.
Using a Higher-Level Spell Slot. The damage io· creases by ld8 for each spell slot level above 2.

HELLISH REBUKE
Level l Evocation (Warlock)
Casting Time: Reaction, which you take in response to taking damage from a creature that you can see within 60 fe.et of yourself
Range: 60 feet Components: V, S Duration: Instantaneous
The creature that damaged you is momentarily sur-rounded by green Aames. It makes a Dexterity sav-ing throw, taking 2dl0 Fire damage on a failed save or half as much damage on a successful one.
Using a Higher-Level SpellSlot. The damage in-creases by ldlOfor each spellslot level above I.

HEROES' FEAST
Level 6 Conjuration (Bard,Cleric, Druid)
Casting Time: 10 minutes
Range: Self
Components: V, S, M (a gem-encrusted bowl worth 1,000+ GP, which the spell consumes)
Duration: Instantaneous
You conjure a feast that appears on a surface in an unoccupjed 10-foot Cube next to you.The feast takes 1 hour to consume and disappears at the end of that time, and the beneficial effects don't set in until thjs hour is over. Up to twelve creatures can partake of the feast.
A creature that partakes gains several benefits, which last for 24 hours. The creature has Resis· lance to Poison damage, and it has Immunity to the Frightened and Poisoned conditions. Its Hit Point maximum also increases by 2d10, and it gains the same number of Hit Points.

284-	CHAPTl!R 71 SPELLS

































HEROISM
Level I Enchantment (Bard, Paladin)
Casting Time: Action Range: Touch Components: V, S
Duration: Concentration, up to 1 minute
Awilling creatu1·e you touch is imbued with brav-ery. Until the spell ends, the creature is immune to the Frightened condition and gains Temporary Hit Points equal to your spelkasting ability modifier at the start of each of its turns.
Usinga Higher-Level Spell Slot. You can target one additional creature for each spell slot level above 1.

HEX
Level 1Enchantment (Warlock)
Casting Time: Bonus Action
Range: 90 feet
Components: V, S, M (the petrified eye of a newt) Duration: Concentration, up to 1 hour
You place a curse on a creature that you can see within range. Until the spell ends, you deal an extra ld6 Necrotic damage to the target whenever you hit
it with an attack roll. Also, choose one ability when you cast the spell.The target has Disadvantage on ability checks made with the chosen ability.
lfthe target drops to 0 Hit Points before thisspell ends, you can take a Bonus Action on a later turn to curse a new creature.
Using a Higher-Level Spell Slot. Your Concentra· tion can last longer with a spell slot of level 2 (up to 4 hours), 3-4 (up to 8 hours). or 5+(24 hours).

HOLD MONSTER
Level 5 Enchantment (Bard, Sorcerer,Warlock, Wizard)
Casting Time: Action Range: 90 feet
Components: V, S, M (a straight piece of iron) Duration: Concentration, up to 1 minute
Choose a creature that you can see within range. The target must succeed on a Wisdom saving throw or have the Paralyzed condition for the duration. At the end of each of its turns, the target repeats the save, ending the spell on itself on a success.
Usinga Higher-Level Spell Slot. You can target one additional creature for each spell slot level above 5.





CHAPTER 7 I SPELLS	285




































HOLD PERSON
Level 2 Enchantment (Bard, Cleric, Druid,Sorcerer, Warlock, Wizard)
Casting Time: Action Range: 60 feet
Components: V, S, M (a straight piece of iron)
Duration: Concentration, up to 1 minute
Choose a Humanoid that you can see within range. The target must succeed on a Wisdom saving throw or have the Paralyzed condition for the duration. At the end of each of its turns, the target repeats the save, ending the spell on itself on a success.
Using a Higher-Level Spell Slot. You can target one additional Humanoid for each spell slot level above 2.

HOLY AURA
Level 8 Abjuration (Cleric)
Casting Time: Action Range: Self
Components: V, S, M (a reliquary worth 1,000+ GP) Duration: Concentration, up to 1 minute
For the duration, you emit an aura in a 30-foot Em· anation. While in the aura,creatures of your choice































have Advantage on all saving throws, and other creatures have Disadvantage on attack rolls against them. In addition, when a Fiend or an Undead hits an affected creature with a melee attack roll, the at-tacker must succeed on a Constitution saving throw or have the Blinded condition until the end of lts next turn.

HUNGER OF HADAR
Level 3 Conjuration (Warlock)
Casting Time: Action
Range: 150 feet
Components: V, S, M (a pickled tentacle) Duration: Concentration, up to 1 minute
You open a gateway to the Far Realm, a region in· fested ,vith unspeakable horrors. A 20-foot·radius Sphere of Darkness appears, centered on a point with range and lasting for the duration. The Sphere is Difficult Terrain, and it is filled with strange whis-pers and slurping noises, which can be heard up to 30 feet away. No light, magical or otherwise, can il-luminate the area, and creatures fully within it have the Blinded condition.
Any creature that starts its turn in the area takes 2d6 Cold damage. Any creature that ends its turn


286	CHAPTER 7 I SPELLS

there must succeed on a Dexterity saving throw or take 2d6 Acid damage from otherworldly tentacles. Using a Higher-Level Spell Slot. The Cold or Acid damage (your choice) increases by ld6 for each spell
slot level above 3.

HUNTER'S MARK
Level 1 Divination (Ranger)
Casting Time: Bonus Action Range: 90 feet Components: V
Duration: Concentration, up to 1 hour
You magically mark one creature you can see within range as your quarry. Until the spell ends, you deal an extra ld6 Force damage to the target
\Vhenever you hit it with an attack roll. You also have Advantage on any Wisdom (Perception or Sur· viva!) check you make to find it.
If the target drops to 0 Hit Points before thisspell ends, you can take a Bonus Action to move the mark to a new creature you can see within range.
Using a Higher-Level SpellSlot. Your Concentra· tion can last longer with a spell slot of level 3-4 (up to 8 hours) or 5+ (up to 24 hours).

HYPNOTIC PATTERN
Level 3 Illusion (Bard, Sorcerer.Warlock,Wizard)
Casting Time: Action
Range: 120 feet
Components: S, M (a pinch of confetti) Duration: Concentration, up to 1 minute
You create a twisting pattern of colors in a 30-foot Cube within range. The pattern appears for a mo-ment and vanishes. Each creature in the area who can see the pattern must succeed on a Wisdom saving throw or have the Charmed condition for the duration. While Charmed, the creature has the Incapacitated condition and a Speed of 0.
Thespe,11ends for an affected creature if it takes any damage or if someone else uses an action to shake the creature out of its stupor.

ICE KNCFE
Level I Conjuration (Druid,Sorcerer, Wizard)
Casting Time: Action
Range: 60 feet
Components: S, M (a drop of water or a piece of ice) Duration: Instantaneous
You create a shard of ice and Aing it at one creature within range. Make a ranged spell attack against the target. On a hit, the target takes ldlO Piercing damage. Hit or miss, the shard then explodes. The












target and each creature within S feet of it must succeed on a Dexterity saving throw or take 2d6 Cold damage.
Using a Higher-Level Spell Slot. The Cold damage increases by ld6 for each spell slot level above I.

leŁ STORM
Level 4 /Łvocation (Druid, Sorcerer,Wizard)
Casting Time: Action Range: 300 feet
Components: V, S, M (a mitten) Duration: Instantaneous
Hail falls in a 20-foot•radius, 40-foot·high Cylinder centered on a point within range. Each creature
in the Cylinder makes a Dexterity saving throw. A creature takes 2d10 Bludgeoning damage and 4d6 Cold damage on a failed save or half as much dam-age on a successful one.
Hailstones turn ground in the Cylinder into Diffi· cult Terrain until the end of your next turn.
Using a Higher-Leve/ Spell Slot. The Bludgeoning damage increases by ldlO for each spell slot level above 4.

IDENTIFY
Level 1Divination (Bard,Wizard)
Casting Time: 1 minute or Ritual Range:Touch
Components: V, S, M (a pearl worth 100+ GP) Duration: Instantaneous
You touch an object throughout the spell's casting. If the object is a magic item or some other magi· cal object, you learn its properties and how to use them, whether it requires Attunement, and how many charges it has, if any. You learn whether any ongoingspells are affecting the item and what they
are. If the item was created by a spell, you learn that spell's name.
If you instead touch a creature throughout the casting, you learn which ongoing spells, if any, are currently affecting it.
CHAPTER 7 I SPELLS	287

ILLUSORY SCRIPT
Level I Illusion (Bard,Warlock, Wizard)
Casting Time: 1 minute or Ritual Range:Touch
Components: S, M (ink worth 10+ GP, which the spell consumes)
Duration: 10 days
You write on parchment, paper, or another suitable material and imbue it with an illusion that lasts for the duration. To you and any creatures you desig· nate when you cast the spell, the writing appears normal,seems to be written in your hand, and conveys whatever meaning you intended when you wrote the text. To aU others. the writing appears as if it were written in an unknown or magical script that is unintelligible. Alternatively, the illusion can alter the meaning, handwriting, and language of the text, though the language must be one you know.
If the spell is dispelled, the originalscript and the illusion both disappear.
A creature that hasTruesight can read the hidden message.

IMPRISONMENT
Level 9 Abjuration (Warlock,Wizard)
Casting Time: 1 minute
Range: 30 feet
Components: V, S, M (a statuette of the target worth 5,000+ GP)
Duration: Until dispelled
You create a magical restraint to hold a creature that you can see within range.The target must make a Wisdom saving throw. On a successful save, the target is unaffected, and it is immune to this spell for the next 24 hours. On a failed save, the target is imprisoned. While imprisoned, the target doesn't need to breathe, eat, or drink. and it doesn't age. Divination spells can't locate or perceive the imprisoned target, and the target can't teleport.
Until the spell ends, the target is also affected by one of the following effects of your choice:
Burial. The target is entombed beneath the earth in a hollow globe of magical force that is just large enough to contain the target. Nothing can pass into or out of the globe.
Chaining. Chains firm.ly rooted in the ground hold the target in place. The target has the Restrained condition and can't be moved by any means.
Hedged Prison.The target is trapped in a demi· plane that is warded against teleportation and planar travel.The demiplane is your choice of a labyrinth, a cage, a tower, or the like.
Minim.us Containment. The target becomes I inch tall and is trapped inside an indestructiblegem-stone or a similar object. Light can pass through the gemstone (allowing the target to see out and other creatures to see in), but nothing else can pass through byany means.
Slumber. The target has the Unconscious condition and can't be awoken.
Ending the Spell. When you cast the spell, specify a trigger that will endit. The trigger can be as sim• pie or as elaborate as you choose, but the OM must agree that it has a high likelihood of happening within the next decade. The trigger must be an ob· servable action, such as someone making a partic· ular offering at the temple of your god, saving your true love, or defeating a specific monster.
A Dispel Magic spell can end the spell only if it is cast with a level 9 spell slot, targeting either the prison or the component used to create it.

INCENDTARY CLOUD
Level 8 Conjuration (Druid, Sorcerer, Wizard)
Casting Time: Action Range: 150 feet Components: V, S
Duration: Concentration, up to 1 minute
A swirling doud of embers and smoke fills a
20-foot-radiusSphere centered on a point ,_,ithin range. The cloud's area is Heavily Obscured. It lasts for the duration or until a strong wind (like that created by Gust of Wind) disperses it.
When the cloud appears, each creature in it makes a Dexterity saving throw. taking 10d8 Fire damage on a failed save or half as much damage on a successful one. A creature must also make this save when the Sphere moves into its space and when it enters the Sphere or ends its turn there. A creature makes this save only once per turn.
Thecloud moves 10 feet away from you in a direc· tion you choose at the start of each of your turns.

lNrUCTWOUNDS
Level J Necromancy (Cleric)
Casting Time: Action Range: Touch Components: V, S Duration: Instantaneous
A creature you touch makes a Constitution saving throw, taking 2dl0 Necrotic damage on a failed save or half as much damage on a successful one.
Using a Higher-Level Spell Slot.The damage in· creases by ldlO for each spell slot level above I.



288	CHAPTER 7 I SPELLS



































INSECT PLACUE
Level 5 Conjuration (Cleric, Druid, Sorcerer)
Casting Time: Action
Range: 300 feet
Components: V, S, M (a locust)
Duration: Concentration, up to 10 minutes
Swarming locusts fill a 20-foot-radius Sphere centered on a point you choose ,vithin range. The Sphere remains for the duration, and its area is Lightly Obscured and Difficult Terrain.
When the swarm appears, each creature in it makes a Constitution saving throw, taking 4dl0 Piercing damage on a failed save or half as much damage on a successful one. A creature also makes thissave when it enters the spell's area for the first
time on a turn or ends its turn there. A creature makes this save only once per turn.
Using a Higher-Level Spell Slot. The damage in-creases by ld!O for each spell slot level above 5.
fNVISIBILITY
Level 2 Illusion (Bard, Sorcerer,Warlock,Wizard)
Casting Time: Action Range:Touch
Components: V, S, M (an eyelash in gum arabic) Duration: Concentration, up to 1 hour
A creature you touch has the Invisible condition un-til the spell ends. The spell ends early immediately aA:er the target makes an attack roll, deals damage, or casts a spell.
Using a Higher-Level Spell Slot. You can target one additional creature for each spell slot level above 2.


JALLARZl'S STORM OF RADIANCE
Level 5 Evocation (Warlock,Wizard)
Casting Time: Action
Range: 120 feet
Component: V, S, M (a pinch of phosphorus) Duration: Concentration, up to 1 minute
You unleash a storm of Aashing light and raging thunder in a JO-foot-radius, 40-foot-high Cylin-der centered on a point you can see within range. While in this area, creatures have the Blinded and
CflA PTER 7 I SPELLS	289
Deafened conditions, and they can't cast spells with a Verbal component.
When the storm appears. each creature in it makes a Constitution saving throw, taking 2d10 Radiant damage and 2d10 Thunder damage on a failed save or half as much damage on a successful one. A creature also makes this save when it enters the spell's area for the first time on a turn or ends its turn there. A creature makes thissave only once per turn.
Usinga Higher-Level Spell Slot.The Radiant and Thunder damage increase by ld!O for each spell slot level above 5.


JUMP
Level I Transmutation (Druid. Ranger, Sor'cerer, Wizard)
Casting Time: Bonus Action Range:Touch
Component: V, S, M (a grasshopper's hind leg)
Duration: 1 minute
You touch a willing creature. Once on each of its turns until the spell ends, that creature can jump up to 30 feet byspending 10 feet of movement.
Using a Higher-Level Spell Slot. You can target one
additional creature for each spell slot level above I.

KNOCK
Level 2 Transmutation (Bard, Sorcerer,Wizard)
Casting Time: Action Range: 60 feet Components: V Duration: Instantaneous
Choose an object that you can see within range. The object can be a door, a box. a chest. a set of man· acles, a padlock, or another object that contains a mundane or magicaI means that prevents access.
A target that is held shut bya mundane lock or that isstuck or barred becomes unlocked, unstuck, or unbarred. If the object bas multiple locks, only one of them is unlocked.
If the target is held shut by Arcane Lock, that spell is suppressed for LO minutes, during which time the target can be opened and closed.
When you cast the spell, a loud knock. audible up to 300 feet away. emanates from the target.

LEGEND LORE
Level 5 Divination (Bard,Cleric, Wizard)
Casting Time: 10 minutes
Range: Self
Components: V, S, M (incense worth 250+ GP, which the spell consumes, and four ivory strips worth SO+ GP each)
Duration: Instantaneous
Name or describe a famous person, place, or object. 'l'he spell brings to your mind a brief summary of the significant lore about that famous thing, as de-scribed by the OM.
'l'he lore might consist of important details, amus·
ing revelations, or even secret lore that has never been widely known.Tbe more information you already know about the thing. the more precise and detailed the information you receive is. That infor-mation is accurate but might be couched in Figura· tive language or poetry, as determined by the OM.
If the famous thing you chose isn't actually fa. mous, you hear sad musical notes played on a trom-bone, and the spell fails.

LEOMUN0'S SECRET CHEST
Level4 Conjuration (Wizard)
Casting Time: Action Range:Touch
Components: V, S, M (a chest, 3 feet by 2 feet by 2 feet. constructed from rare materials worth 5,000+ GP, and a Tiny replica of the chest made from the same materials worth SO+ GP)
Duration: Until dispelled
You hide a chest and all its contents on the Ethereal Plane. You must touch the chest and the miniature replica that serveas Material components for the spell. The chest can contain up to 12 cubic feet of nonliving material (3 feet by 2 feet by 2 feet).
While the chest remains on the Ethereal Plane, you can take a Magic action and touch the replica to recall the chest. It appears in an unoccupied space on the ground within 5 feet of you. You cansend the chest back to the Ethereal Plane by takinga Magic action to touch the chest and the replica.
After 60 days, there is a cumulative 5 percent chance at the end of each day that the spell ends. 'l'he spell also ends if you cast thisspell again or if the Tiny replica chest is destroyed. If the spell ends and the larger chest is on the Ethereal Plane. the chest remains there for you or someone else to find.








290	CH.APTER 7 I SPELLS
LEOMUND'S TINY HUT
Level 3 Evocation (Bard,Wizard)
Casting Time: 1 minute or Ritual
Range: Self
Components: V, S, M (a crystal bead)
Duration: & hours
A JO-foot Emanation springs intoexistence around you a.nd remains stationary for the duration. The spell fails when you cast it if the Emanation isn't big enough to fully encapsulate all creatures in its area.
Creatures and objects within the Emanation when you cast the spell can move through it freely. All other creatures and objects are barred from passing through it.Spells of level 3 or lower can't be cast through it, and the effects of such spells can't ex-tend into it.
The atmosphere inside the Emanation is com-fortable and dry, regardless of the weather outside. Until the spell ends, you can command the interior to have Dim Light or Darkness (no action required). The Emanation is opaque from the outside and of anycolor you choose, but it's transparent from the inside.
The spell ends early if you leave the Emanation or if you cast it again.
LESSER RESTORATION
Level 2 Abjuration (Bard,Cleric, Druid, Paladin, Ranger)
Casting Time: Bonus Action Range:Touch
Components: V, S Duration: Instantaneous
You touch a creature and end one condition on it: Blinded, Deafened, Paralyzed, or Poisoned.

LEVITATE
Level 2 Transmutation (Sorcerer; Wizard)
Casting Time: Action Range: 60 feet
Components: V, S, M (a metalspring) Duration: Concentration, up to 10 minutes
One creature or loose object of your choice that you can see within range rises vertically up to 20 feet and remains suspended there for the duration. The spell can levitate an object that weighs up to 500 pounds. An unwilling creature that succeeds on a Constitution saving throw is unaffected.
The target can move only by pushing or pulling against a fixed object or surface within reach (such as a wall or a ceiling), which allows it to move as if it were climbing. You can change the target's altitude

by up to 20 feet in either direction on your turn. If you are the target. you can move upor down as part of your move. Otherwise. you can take a Magic ac-tion to move the target, which must remain within the spell's range.
When thespell ends. the target floats gently to the ground if it is still aloft

LICHT
Evocation Cantrip (Bard,Cleric, Sorcerer,Wizard)
Casting Time: Action
Range: Touch
Components: V, M (a firefly or phosphorescent moss) Duration: 1 hour
You touch one Large or smaller object that isn't being worn or carried by someone else. Until the spell ends, the object sheds Bright Light in a 20-foot radius and Dim Light for an additional 20 feet.The light can be colored as you like.
Covering the object with something opaque blocks the light. The spell ends iŁyou cast it again.

LIGHTNING ARROW
Level 3 Transmutation (Ranger)
Casting Time: Bonus Action, which you take immedi-ately after hitting or missing a target with a ranged attack using a weapon
Range: Self Components: V, S Duration: Instantaneous
As your attack hits or misses the target, the weapon or ammunition you're using transforms into a lightning bolt. Instead of taking any damage or other effects from the attack, the target takes 4d8 Lightning damage on a hit or half as much damage on a miss. Each creature within 10 feet of the target then makes a Dexterity saving throw, taking 2d8 Lightning damage on a failed save or half as much damage on a successful one.
The weapon or ammunition then returns to its normal form.
Usinga Higher-Level Spell Slot. The damage for both effects of the spell increases by 1d8 for each spell slot level above 3.

LIGHTNING BOLT
Level 3 Evocation (Sorcerer, Wizard)
Casting Time:Action
Range: Self
Components: V, S, M (a bit of fur and a crystal rod) Duration: Instantaneous
Astroke oflightning forming a 100-foot·loog,
5-foot-wide Line blasts out from you in a direction you choose. Each creature in the Line makes a Dex-terity saving throw. taking 8d6 Lightning damage on a failed save or half as much damage on a suc-cessful one.
Using a Higher-Level Spe.11Slot. The damage in-creases by id6 for each spell slot level above 3.

LOCATE ANIMALS OR PLANTS
Level 2 Divination (Bard, Druid, Ranger)
Casting Time: Action or Ritual
Range: Self
Components: V, S, M (fur from a bloodhound) Duration: Instantaneous
Describe or name a specific kind of Beast, Plant creature, or nonmagical plant. You learn the direc-tion and distance to the closest creature or plant of that kind within 5 miles, if any are present.

LOCATE CREATURE
Level 4 Divination (Bard, Cleric, Druid, Paladin, Ranger; Wizard)
Casting Time: Action
Range: Self
Components: V, S, M (fur from a bloodhound) Duration: Concentration, up to 1 hour
Describe or name a creature that is familiar to you.
You sense the direction to the creature's location if that creature is within 1,000 feet of you. If the creature is moving, you know the direction of its movement.
The spell can locate a specific creature known to you or the nearest creature of a specific kind (such as a human or a unicorn) if you have seen such a creature up close-within 30 feet-at least once.
If the creature you described or named is in a dif-ferent form, such as under the effects of a Flesh to Stone or Polymorph spell, this spell doesn't locate the creature.
This spell can't locate a creature if any thickness of lead blocks a direct path between you and the creature.




292	CHAPTER 7 I SPELLS
LOCATE OBJECT
Level 2 Divination (Bard,Cleric, Druid, Paladin, Ranger·, Wizard)
Casting Time: Action Range: Self
Components: V, S, M (a forked twig) Duration: Concentration, up to 10 minutes
Describe or name an object that is familiar to you.
You sense the direction to the object's location if that object is within 1,000 feet of you. If the object is in motion, you know the direction of its movement.
The spell can locate a speci!ic object known to you
if you have seen it up close-within 30 feet-at least once. Alternatively, the spell can locate the nearest object of a particular kind, such as a certain kfod of apparel.jewelry, furniture, tool, or weapon.
This spell can't locate an object if any thickness of lead blocks a direct path between you and the object.

LONGSTRIDER
Level I Transmutation (Bard. Druid, Ranger, Wizard)
Casting Time: Action
Range: Touch
Components: V, S, M (a pinch of dirt) Duration: l hour
You touch a creature. The target's Spee.clincreases by 10 feet until the spell ends.
Usinga Higher-Level Spell Slot. You can target one additional creature for each spell slot level above I.

MAGE ARMOR
Level I Abjuration (Sorcerer, Wizard)
Casting Time:Action Range:Touch
Components: V, S, M (a piece of cured leather) Duration: 8 hours
You touch a willing creature who isn't wearing armor. Until the spell ends, the target's base AC be-comes 13 plus its Dexterity modi!ier. The spell ends early if the target dons armor.
MAGE HAND
Conjuration Cantrip (Bard,Sorcerer, Warlock,Wizard)
Casting Time: Action Range: 30 feet Components: V, S Duration: 1 minute
A spectral, floating hand appears at a point you choose within range. The hand lasts for the dura-tion. The hand vanishes if it is ever more than 30 feet away from you or if you cast this spell again.
When you cast the spell, you can use the hand to manipulate an object, open an unlocked door or container, stow or retrieve an item from an open container, or pour the contents out of a vial.
As a Magic action on your later turns, you can control the hand thus again. As part of that action, you can move the hand up to 30 feet.
The hand can't attack, activate magic items, or carry more than 10 pounds.

MAGIC CIRCLE
Level 3 Abjuration (Cleric, Paladin, Warlock,Wizard)
Casting Time: l minute
Range: 10 feet
Components: V, S, M (salt and powdered silver worth 100+GP, which the spell consumes)
Duration: l hour
You create a 10-foot-radius, 20-foot-tall Cylinder of magical energy centered on a point on the ground that you can see within range. Glowing runes ap· pear wherever the Cylinder intersects with the floor or other surface.
Choose one or more of the following types of creatures: Celestials. Elementals, Fey, Fiends, or Undead. The circle affects a creature of the chosen type in the following ways:
    • The creature can't willingly enter the Cylinder by nonmagical means. If the creature tries to use
teleportation or interplanar travel to do so, it must
!irst succeed on a Charisma saving throw.
    • The creature has Disadvantage on attack rolls against targets within the Cylinder.
    • Targets within the Cylinder can't be possessed by or gain the Cha.rmed or Frightened condition from the creature.
Each ti.me you cast this spell, you can cause its magic to operate in tbe reverse direction, prevent· ing a creature of the speci!ied type from leaving the Cylinder and protecting targets outside it.
Usinga Higher-Level Spell Slot. The duration in-creases by 1 hour for each spell slot level above 3.
CHAPTER 7 I SPELLS	293







































MAGICjAR
Level 6 Necromancy (Wizard)
Casting Time: l minute
Range: Self
Components: V, S, M (a gem, crystal, or reliquary worth 500+ GP)
Duration: Until dispelled
Your body falls into a catatonic state as your soul leaves it and enters the container you used for the spell's Material component. While your soul inhab-its the container, you are aware of your surround-ings as if you were in the containe.r's space. You can't move or take Reactions. The onlyaction you can take is to project your soul up to 100 feet out of the container, either returning to your living body (and ending the spell) or attempting to possess a Humanoid's body,
You can attempt to possess any Humanoid within 100 feet of you that you can see (creatures warded by a Protection from Eviland Good or Magic Circle spell can't be possessed). The target makes a Cha-risma saving throw. On a failed save, your soul en-ters the target's body, and the target's soul becomes trapped in the container. On a successful save, the
































target resists your efforts to possess it, and you can't attempt to possess it again for 24 hours.
Once you possess a creature's body, you control it. Your Hit Points. Hit Point Dice,Strength, Dexterity, Constitution. Speed. and senses are replaced by the creature's. You otherwise keep your gamestatistics.
Meanwhile, the possessed creature's soul can per-ceive from the container using its own senses, but it can't move and it is Incapacitated.
While possessing a body, you can take a Magic ac-
tion to return from the host body to the container if it is within 100 feet of you, returning the host crea-ture's soul to its body. If the host body dies while you're in it, the creature dies. and you make a Cha-risma saving throw agajnst your own spellcasting DC. On a success, you return to the container if it is within 100 feet of you, Otherwise, you die.
If the container is destroyed or the spell ends, your soul returns to your body. If your body is more than 100 feet away from you or if your body is dead, you die. If another creature's soul is in the container when it is destroyed, the creature's soul returns to its body if the body is alive and within 100 feet. Otherwise, that creature dies.
When the spell ends, the container is destroyed.



294,	CHAPTER 7 I SPELLS
MAGIC MISSILE
Level 1evocation (Sorcerer, Wizard)
Casting Time: Action Range: 120 feet Components: v,S
Duration: Instantaneous
You create three glowing darts of magical force. Each dart strikes a creature of your choice that you can see within range. A dart deals ld4 + I Force damage to its target. The darts allstrike simultane-ously, and you can dkect them to hit one creature or several.
Using a Higher-Level Spell Slot. The spell creates one more dart for each spell slot level above 1.

MAGIC MOUTH
Level 2 Illusion (Bard, Wizard)
Casting Time: l minute or Ritual Range: 30 feet
Components: V, S, M (jade dust worth 10+ GP, which the spell consumes)
Duration: Until dispelled
You implant a message within an object in range-a message that is uttered when a trigger condition
is met. Choose an object that you can see and that isn't being worn or carried by another creature. Then speak the message, which must be 25 words or fewer, though it can bedelivered over as long as JO minutes. Finally, determine the circumstance that will trigger the spell to deliver your message.
When that trigger occurs, a magical mouth ap-pears on the object and recites the message in your voice and at the same volume you spoke. If the ob-ject you chose has a mouth or something that looks like a mouth (for example, the mouth of a statue), the magical mouth appears there, so the words ap-pear to come from the object's mouth. When you cast this spell, you can have the spell end after it delivers its message, or it can remain and repeat its message whenever the trigger occurs.
The trigger can beas general or as detailed as you like, though it must be based on visual or audible conditions that occur within 30 feet of the object. For example. you could instruct the mouth to speak when any creature moves within 30 feet of the ob-ject or when a silver bell rings within 30 feet of it.
MAGIC WEAPON
Level 2 Transmutation (Paladin, Ranger, Sorcerer, Wizard)
Casting Time: Bonus Action
Range: Touch Components: V, S Duration: l hour
You touch a nonmagical weapon. Until the spell ends, that weapon becomes a magic weapon with a
    • I bonus to attack rolls and damage rolls. The spell ends early if you cast it again.
Using a Higher-Leve/ Spell Slot. The bonus in-creases to •2 with a level 3-5 spell slot. The bonus increases to +3 with a level 6• spell slot.

MAJOR IMAGE
Level .311/usion (Bard, Sorcerer,Warlock,Wiz<1rd)
Casting Time: Action Range: 120 feet
Components: V, S, M (a bit of fleece) Duration: Concentration, up to 10 minutes
You create the image of an object, a creature, or some other visible phenomenon that is no larger than a 20-foot Cube. The image appears at a spot that you can see within range and lasts for the du-ration. It seems real, including sounds,smells, and temperature appropriate to the thing depicted, but it can't deal damage or cause conditions.
If you are within range of the illusion, you can
take a Magic action to cause the image to move to any other spot within range. As the image changes location, you can alter its appearance so that its movements appear natural for the image. For exam-ple, if you create an image of a creature and move it, you can alter the image so that it appears to be walking. Similarly, you can cause the illusion to make different sounds at different times, even mak-ing it carry on a conversation, for example.
Physical interaction with the image reveals it to
be an illusion, for things cari pass through it. A crea-ture that takes a Study action to examine the image can determine that it isan illusion with a success-ful Intelligence (lnvestigation) check against your spell save DC. If a creature discerns the illusion for what it is, the creature can see through the image, and its other sensory qualities become faint to the creature.
Using a Higher-Level Spell Slot. The spell lasts until dispelled, without requiring Concentration. if cast with a level 4+spell slot.





CHAPTER 7 I SPELLS	295

MASS CURE WOUNDS
Level 5 Abjuration (Bard,Cleric, Druid)
Casting Time: Action Range: 60 feet Components: V, S Duration: Instantaneous
A wave of healing energy washes out from a point you can see within range. Choose up to six crea• tures in a 30-foot•radius Sphere centered on that point. Each target regains Hit Points equal to 5d8 plus your spellcasting ability modifier.
Using a Higher-Level Spell Slot. The beating in· creases by ld8 for each spell slot level above 5.

MASS HEAL
Level 9 Abjuration (Cleric)
Casting Time: Action Range: 60 feet Components: V, S Duration: Instantaneous
A flood of healingenergy flows from you into creatures around you. You restore up to 700 Hit Points, divided as you choose amongany number of creatures that you can see within range. Creatures healed by this spell also have the Blinded, Deafened, and Poisoned conditions removed from them.

MASS HEALING WORD
Level 3 Abjuration (Bard,Cleric)
Casting Time: Bonus Action Range: 60 feet Components: V
Duration: Instantaneous
Up tosix creatures of your choice that you can see within range regain Hit Points equal to 2d4 plus your spellcasting ability modifier.
Using a Higher•Level Spell Slot. The healing in· creases by ld4 for each spell slot level above 3.

MASS SUGGESTION
Level 6 Enchantment (Bard, Sorcerer,Wizard)
Casting Time: Action Range: 60 feet
Components: V, M (a snake's tongue) Duration: 24 hours
You suggest a course of activity-described in no more than 25 words-to twelve or fewer crea·
tu res you can see within range that can hear and
understand you. The suggestion must sound achiev· able and not involve anything that would obviously deal damage to any of the targets or their allies. For example, you could say,"Walk to the village down that road, and help the villagers there harvest crops until sunset." Or you could say, "Now is not the time for violence. Drop your weapons, and dance! Stop in an hour."
Each target must succeed on a Wisdom saving throw or have the Charmed condition for the dura-tion or until you or your allies deal damage to the target. Each Charmed target pursues the suggestion to the best of its ability. The suggested activity can continue for the entire duration, but if the sug· gested activity can be completed in a shorter time, the spell endsfor a target upon completing it.
Using a Higher-Level SpellSlot. The duration is longer with a spell slot of level 7 (10 days), 8 (30
days), or 9 (366 days).

MAZE
Level 8 Conjuration (Wizard)
Casting Time: Action Range: 60 feet Components: V, S
Duration: Concentration, up to 10 minutes
You banish a creature that you can see within range into a labyrinthine demiplane. The target remains there for the duration or until it escapes the maze.
The target can take a Study action to try to es-cape. When it does so, it makes a DC 20 Intelligence (Investigation) check. If it succeeds, it escapes, and the spell ends.
When the spell ends, the target reappears in the
space it left or, if that space is occupied. in the near· est unoccupied space.


MELD INTO STONE
Level 3 Tm11smutatio11(Cleric, Druid, Ranger)
Casting Time: Action or Ritual Range:Touch
Components: V, S Duration: 8 hours
You step into a stone object or surface large enough to fully contain your body, merging yourself and your equipment ,vith the stone for the duration.
You must touch the stone to do so. Nothing ofyour presence remains visible or otherwise detectable by nonmagical senses.
While merged with the stone, you can't see what
occurs outside it, and any Wisdom (Perception) checks you make to hear sounds outside it are made




296	CHAPTER 7 I SPELLS

































with Disadvantage. You remain aware of the pas• sage of time and can cast spells on yourself while merged in the stone. You can use 5 feet of move· ment to leave the stone where you entered it, which ends the spell. You otherwise can't move.
Minor physical damage to the stone doesn·t harm you, but its partial destruction or a change in its shape (to the extent that you no longer fit within it) expels you and deals 6d6 Poree damage to you.The stone's complete destruction (or transmutation into a different substance) expels you and deals50 Force damage to you. If expelled, you move into an unoc· cupied space closest to where you first entered and have the Prone condition.


Mnr'sACIDARROW
Level 2 Evocation (Wizard)
Casting Time: Action
Range: 90 feet
Components: V, S, M (powdered rhubarb leaf) Duration: Instantaneous
Ashimmering green arrow streaks toward a target within range and bursts in a spray of acid. Make a ranged spell attack against the target. On a hit, the
target takes 4d4 Acid damage and 2d4 Acid damage at the end of its next turn. On a miss, the arrow splashes the target with acid for half as much of the initial damage only.
Using a Higher-Level SpellSlot. The damage (both initial and later) increases by td4 for each spell slot
level above 2.

MENDING
7l-ansmutation Cantrip (Bard,Cleric, Druid,Sorcerer, Wizard)
Casting Time: 1 minute Range:Touch
Components: V, S, M (two lodestones) Duration: Instantaneous
This spell repairs a single break or tear in an object you touch, such as a broken chain link, two halves of a broken key, a torn cloak, or a leaking wineskin. As long as the break or tear is no larger than I foot in any dimension, you mend it, leaving no trace of the former damage.
This spell can physically repair a magic item, but it can't restore magic to such an object.




CHAPTER 7 I SPELLS	297
MESSAGE
Transmutation Cantrip(Bard, Druid, Sorcerer, Wizard)
Casting Time: Action
Range: 120 feet
Components: S, M (a copper wire) Duration: l round
You point toward a creature within range and whisper a message. The target (and only the target) hears the message and can reply in a whisper that only you can hear.
You can cast this spell through solid objects if you are familiar with the target and know it is beyond the barrier. Magical silence; I foot of stone. metal, or wood; or a thin sheet of lead blocks the spell.

METEOR SWARM
Level 9 Evocation (Sorcerer, Wizard)
Casting Time: Action Range: l mile Components: V, S Duration: Instantaneous
Blazing orbs of fire plummet to the ground at four different points you can see within range. Each creature in a 40-foot·radius Sphere centered on each of those points makes a Dexterity saving throw. A creature takes 20d6 Firedamage and 20d6 Bludgeoning damage on a failed save or half as much damage on a successful one. A creature in the area of more than one fiery Sphere is affected only once.
A nonmagical object that isn't being worn or car· ried also takes the damage if it's in thespell's area, and the object starts burning if it's flammable.


MIND BLANK
Level 8 Abjuration (Bard,Wizard)
Casting Time: Action Range:Touch Components: V, S Duration: 24 hours
Until the spell ends, one willing creature you touch has Immunity to Psychic damage and the Charmed condition. The target is also unaffected by anything that would sense its emotions or alignment, read its thoughts, or magically detect its location, and no spell-not even Wish-can gather information about the target, observe it remotely, or control its mind.
MIND SLIVER
Enchantment Cantrip (Sorcerer, Warlock,Wizard)
Casting Time: Action Range: 60 feet Components: V Duration: l round
You try to temporarily sliver the mind of one crea-ture you can see within range.The target must succeed on an Intelligence saving throw or take ld6 Psychic damage and subtract ld4 from the next sav-ing throw it makes before the end of your next turn.
Cantrip Upgrade. The damage increases by1d6
,_,hen you reach levels 5 (2d6),11 (3d6). and 17 (4d6).


MlND SPIKE
Level 2 Divination (Sorcerer, Warlock,Wizard)
Casting Time: Action Range: 120 feet Components: S
Dural.ion: Concentration, up to 1 hour
You drive a spike of psionic energy into the mind of one creature you can see within range. The target makes a Wisdom saving throw, taking 3d8 Psychic damage on a failed save or half as much damage on a successful one. On a failed save, you also always know the target's location until the spell ends, but only while the two of you are on the same plane
of existence. While you have this kno,vledge. the target can't become hidden from you. and if it has the Invisible condition, it gains no benefit from that condition against you.
Using a Higher-Level Spell Slot. The damage in· creases by ld8 for each spell slot level above 2.

MINOR ILLUSION
Illusion Cantrip (Bard,Sorcerer, Warlock,Wizard)
Casting Time: Action
Range: 30 feet
Components: S, M (a bit offleece) Duration: l minute
You create a sound or an image of an object within range that lasts for the duration. See the descrip· tions below for the effects of each. The iIIusion ends if you cast this spell again.
If a creature takes a Study action to examine the sound or image, the creature can determine that it is an illusion with a successful Intelligence (lnvesti· gation) check against your spell save DC. If a crea• ture discerns the illusion for what it is, the illusion becomes faint to the creature.




298	CHAPTER 7 I SPELLS
Sound. If you create a sound, its volume can range from a whisper to a scream. It can be your voice,someone else's voice, a lion's roar, a beating of drums, or any other sound you choose. The sound
continues unabated throughout the duration, or you can make discrete sounds at different times before the spell ends.
Image. If you create an image of an object-such as a chair, muddy footprints, or a small chest-it must be no larger than a 5-foot Cube.The image can't create sound, light, smell, or any other sensory effect. Physical interaction with the image reveals it to be an illusion, since things can pass through it.

MIRAGE ARCANE
Level 7 Illusion (Bar·d, Druid,Wizard)
Casting Time: 10 minutes Range: Sight Components: V, S Duration: 10 days
You make terrain in an area up to 1 milesquare look,sound.smell. and even feel likesome other sort of terrain. Open fields or a road could be made to resemble a swamp, hill, crevasse, or some other rough or impassable terrain. A pond can be made to seem like a grassy meadow, a precipice like a gentle slope, or a rock-strewn gully like a wide and smooth road.
Similarly, you can alter the appearance of struc· tures or add them where none are present. The spell doesn't disguise, conceal, or add creatures.
The illusion includes audible. visual, tactile, and olfactory elements,so it can tum clear ground into Difficult Terrain (or vice versa) or otherwise impede movement through the area. Any piece of the illu· sory terrain (such as a rock or stick) that is removed from the spell's area disappears immediately.
Creatures with Truesight can see through the illu· sion to the terrain's true form; however, all other el-ements of the illusion remain,so while the creature is aware of the illusion's presence, the creature can still physically interact with the illusion.


MIRROR lMAGE
Level 2 Illusion (Bard,Sorcerer, Warlock,Wizard)
Casting Time: Action Range: Self Components: V, S Duration: 1 minute
Three illusory duplicates of yourself appear in your space. Until the spell ends, the duplicates move with you and mimic your actions,shifting position so it's impossible to track which image is real.
Each time a creature hits you with an attack roll during the spell's duration, roll a d6 for each of your remaining duplicates. If any of the d6s rolls a 3 or higher, one of the duplicates is hit instead of you. and the duplicate is destroyed. The duplicates other-wise ignore all other damage and effects. The spell ends when all three duplicates are destroyed.
A creature is unaffected by thisspell if it has tbe Blinded condition, Blindsight, or Truesight.


MISLEAD
Level 511/usion (Bard, Warlock,Wizard)
Casting Time: Action Range: Self Components: S
Duration: Concentration, up to 1 hour
You gain the Invisible condition at the same time that an illusory double of you appears where you are standing. The double lasts for the duration, but the invisibility ends immediately after you make an attack roll, deal damage, or cast a spell.
As a Magic action, you can move the illusory
double up to twice your Speed and make it gesture. speak, and behave in whatever way you choose. It is intangible and invulnerable.
You can see through its eyesand hear through its ears as if you were located where it is.

MISTY STEP
/..eve/ 2 Conjuration (Sorcerer, Warlock,Wizard)
Casting Time: Bonus Action Range: Self
Components: V
Duration: Instantaneous
Briefly surrounded bysilvery mist, you teleport up to 30 feet to an unoccupied space you can see.

MODIFY MEMORY
Level 5 Snchantment (Bard,Wizard)
Casting Time: Action Range: 30 feet Components: V, S
Duration: Concentration, up to 1 minute
You attempt to reshape another creature's mem· ories. One creature that you can see within range makes a Wisdom saving throw. If you are fighting the creature, it has Advantage on the save. On a failed save, the target has the Charmed condition for the duration. While Charmed in this way, the target also has the lncapacit.ated condition and is unaware of its surroundings, though it can hear
CHAPTER 7 I SPELLS	299
you. lf it takes any damage or is targeted by another spell, this spell ends, and no memories are modified.
While this charm lasts, you can affect the target's memory of an event that it experienced within the last 24 hours and that lasted no more than 10 min· utes. You can permanently eliminate all memory of the event, allow the target to recall the event witb perfect clarity, change its memory of the event's de· tails, or create a memory of some other event.
You must speak to the target to describe how its memories are affected, and it must be able to under· stand your language for the modified memories to take root. Its mind fills in any gaps in the details of your description. If the spell ends before you finish describing the modified memories, the creature's memory isn't altered. Otherwise, the modified mem· ories take hold when the spell ends.
A modified memory doesn't necessarily affect how a creature behaves, particularly if the mem· ory contradicts the creature's natural inclinations, alignment. or beliefs. An illogical modified memory, such as a false memory of how much the creature enjoyed swimming in acid, is dismissed as a bad dream. The OM might deem a modified memory too nonsensical to affect a creature.
A Remove Curse or Greater Restoration spell cast on
the target restores the creature's true memory.
Using a Higher·Level Spell Slot. You can alter the target's memories of an event that took place up to 7 days ago (level 6 spell slot), 30 daysago (level 7 spelI slot), 365 days ago (level 8 spell slot), or any time in the creature's past (level 9 spell slot).


MOONBEAM
Level 2 Evocation (Druid)
Casting Time: Action
Range: 120 feet
Components: V, S, M (a moonseed leaf) Duration: Concentration, up to 1 minute
A silvery beam of pale light shines down in a 5·foot·radius, 40-foot·high Cylinder centered on a point within range. Until the spell ends, Dim Light fills the Cylinder, and you can take a Magic action on later turns to move the Cylinder up to 60 feet.
When the Cylinder appears, each creature in it makes a Constitution saving throw. On a failed save, a creature takes 2d10 Radiant damage, and if the creature is shape·shifled (as a result of the Poly-morph spell, for example), it reverts to its true form and can't shape•shifl until it leaves the Cylinder.
On a successful save, a creature takes half as much damage only: A creature also makes this save when the spell's area moves into its space and when it
enters the spell's area or ends its turn there. A crea· ture makes this save only once per turn.
Using a Higher-Level Sp<!ll Slot. Tbe damage in· creases by ldlO for each spell slot level above 2.

MORDENKAINEN'S FAITHFUL HOUND
Level 4 Conjuration (Wizard)
Casting Time:Action Range: 30 feet
Components: V, S, M (a silver whistle) Duration: 8 hours
You co,tjure a phantom watchdog in an unoccupied space that you can see within range. The hound remains for the duration or until the two of you are more than 300 feet apart from each other.
No one but you can see the hound, and it is in· tangible and invulnerable. When a Small or larger creature comes within 30 feet of it without first speaking the password that you specify when you cast this spell, the hound starts barking loudly. The hound hasTruesight with a range of 30 feet.
At the start of each of your turns, the hound at· tempts to bite one enemy within 5 feet of it. That enemy must succeed on a Dexterity saving throw or take 4d8 Force damage.
On your later turns, you can take a Magic action to move the hound up to 30 feet.

MORDENKAINEN'S MAGNIFICENT MANSLON
Level 7 Co,ijuration (Bard, Wizard)
Casting Time: 1 minute
Range: 300 feet
Components: V, S, M (a miniature door worth 15+ GP) Duration: 24 hours
You conjure a shimmering door in range thatJasts for the duration. The door leads to an extradimen· sional dwelling and is 5 feet wide and 10 feet tall. You and any creature you designate when you cast the spell can enter the extradimensional dwelling as long as the door remains open. You can open or close it (no action required) if you are within 30 feet of it. While closed, the door is imperceptible.
Beyond the door is a magnificent foyer with numerous chambers beyond. The dwelling's atmo· sphere is clean, fresh, and warm.
You can create any Aoor plan you like for the dwelling, but it can't exceed 50 contiguous lO·foot Cubes. The place is furnished and decorated as you choose. It contains sufficient food to servea nine· course banquet for up to 100 people. Furnishings and other objects created by thisspell dissipate into smoke if removed from it.




300	CHAPTER 7 I SPELLS


































A staff of LOO near-transparentservants attends all who enter. You determine the appearance of these servants and their attire. They are invulner-able and obey your commaods. Each servant can perform tasks that a human could perform, but they can't attack or take any action that would directly harm another creature. Thus the servants can fetch things, clean, mend, fold clothes, light fires, serve food, pour wine, and so on. The servants can't leave the dwelling.
When the spell ends, any creatures or objects left inside the extradimensionalspace are expelled into the unoccupied spaces nearest to the entrance.

MORDENKAINEN'S PRIVATE SANCTUM
Level 4 Abjuration (Wizard)
Casting Time: 10 minutes Range: 120 feet
Components: V, S, M (a thin sheet of lead) Duration: 24 hours
You make an area within range magically secure. The area is a Cube that can be as small as 5 feet to as large as 100 feet on each side. The spell lasts for the duration.
When you cast the spell, you decide what sort of security thespell provides, choosing any of the fol-lowing properties:
    • Sound can't pass through the barrier at the edge of the warded area.
    • The barrier of the warded area appears darkand foggy, preventing vision (including Darkvision) through it.
    • Sensors created by Divination spells can't appear inside the protected area or pass through the bar-rier at its perimeter.
    • Creatures in the area can't be targeted by Divina-tion spells.
    • Nothing can teleport into or out of the warded
area.
    • Planar travel is blocked within the warded area.
Casting th isspell on the same spot every day for 365 days makes the spell last until dispelled.
Usinga Higher-Level Spell Slot. You can increase the size of the Cube by JOO feet for each spell slot level above 4.






CHAPTER 7 I SPELLS	301
MORDENKAINEN'S SWORD
Level 7 Evocation (Bard, Wizard)
Cast.ing Time: Action Range: 90 feet
Components: V, S, M (a miniature sword worth 250+ GP)
Duration: Concentration, up to 1 minute
You create a spectral sword that hovers within range. It lasts for the duration.
When the sword appears, you make a melee spell attack against a target within S feet of the sword. On a hit, the target takes Force damage equal to 4dl2 plus your spellcasting ability modifier.
On your later turns. you can take a Bonus Action to move the sword up to 30 feet to a spot you can see and repeat the attack against the same target or a different one.

MOVE EARTH
Level 6 Transmutation (Druid,Sorcerer, Wizard)
Casting Time: Action
Range: 120 feet
Components: V, S, M (a miniature shovel) Duration: Concentration, up to 2 hours
Choose a.n area of terrain no larger than 40 feet on a side within range. You can reshape dirt, sand, or clay in the area in any manner you choose for the duration. You can raise or lower the area's eleva• tion, create or fill in a trench, erect or flatten a wall, or form a pillar.The extent of any such changes can't exceed half the area's largest dimension. For example, if you affect a 40-foot square, you can create a pillar up to 20 feet high, raise or lower the square's elevation by up to 20 feet. dig a trench up to 20 feet deep, and so on. It takes 10 minutes for these changes to complete. Because the terrain's transformation occurs slowly, creatures in the area can't usually be trapped or injured by the ground's movement.
At the end of every 10 minutes you spend concen·
!ratingon the spell, you can choose a new area of terrain to affect within range.
This spell can't manipulate natural stone or stone construction. Rocks and structures shift to accom• modate the new terrain. If the way you shape the terrain would make a structure unstable, it might collapse.
Similarly, this spell doesn't directly affect plant growth. The moved earth carries any plants along with it.
NON DETECTION
Level 3 Abjuration (Bard, Ranger, Wizard)
Casting Time: Action Range:Touch
Components: V, S, M (a pinch of diamond dust worth 25+ GP, which the spell consumes)
Duration: 8 hours
For the duration, you bide a target that you touch from Divination spells.The target can be a willing creature, or it can be a place or an object no larger than 10 feet in any dimension. The target can't
be targeted by any Divination spell or perceived through magical scryingsensors.

NvsTu1.'s MAc1c Au RA
Level 2 lllusion (Wizard)
Casting Time: Action Range: Touch
Components: V, S, M (a small square of silk) Duration: 24 hours
With a touch, you place an illusion on a willing creature or an object that isn't being worn or car-ried. A creature gains the Mask effect below, and an object gains the False Aura effect below. The effect lasts for the duration. If you cast the spell on the same target every day for 30 days, the illusion lasts until dispelled.
Mask (Creature). Choose a creature type other than the target's actual type. Spells and other magi· cal effects treat the target as if it were a creature of the chosen type.
False Aura (Object). You change the way the target appears to spells and magical effects that detect magical auras, such as Detect MaffiC. You can make
a nonmagical object appear magical, make a magic item appear nonmagical. or change the object's aura so that it appears to belong to a school of magic you choose.

OTtl.UKE'S FREEZING SPHERE
Level 6 Evocation (Sorcerer,Wizard)
Casting Time: Action
Range: 300 feet
Components: V, S, M (a miniature crystal sphere) Duration: Instantaneous
A frigid globestreaks from you to a point of your choice within range. where it explodes in a 60-foot·radius Sphere. Each creature in that area makes a Constitution saving throw, taking l0d6
Cold damage on failed save or half as much damage on a successful one.



302	CHAPTER 7 I SPELLS
If the globe strikes a body of water, it freezes the water to a depth of 6 inches over an area 30 feet square.This ice lasts for I minute. Creatures that were swimming on the surface of frozen water are trapped in the ice and have the Restrained condi-tion. A trapped creature can take an action to make a Strength (Athletics) check against your spell save DC to break free.
You can refrain from firing the globe after com-pleting the spell's casting. If you do so, a globe about the sizeof a sling bullet, cool to the touch, appears in your hand. At any time, you or a creature you give the globe to can throw the globe (to a range of 40 feet) or hurl it with a sling (to the sling's normal range). It shatters on impact, with the same effect as a normal casting of the spell. You can also set the globe down without shattering it. After l minute, if the globe hasn't already shattered, it explodes.
Using a Higher-Level Spell Slot. The damage in-creases by 1d6 for each spell slot level above 6.

OTILUKE'S RESILIENT SPHERE
Level 4 Abjur-ation (Wizard)
Casting Time: Action Range: 30 feet
Components: V, S, M (a glass sphere) Duration: Concentration, up to 1 minute
A shimmering sphere encloses a Large or smaller creature or object within range.An unwilling crea-ture must succeed on a Dexterity saving throw or be enclosed for the duration.
Nothing-not physical objects, energy, or other spell effects-can pass through the barrier, in or out, though a creature in the sphere can breathe there. The sphere is immune to all damage, and a creature or object inside can't be damaged by attacks or ef-fectsoriginating from outside, nor can a creature inside the sphere damage anything outside it.
The sphere is weightless and just large enough to contain the creature or object inside. An enclosed creature can take an action to push against the sphere's walls and thus roll the sphere at up to half the creature's Speed. Similarly, the globe can be picked up and moved by other creatures.
A Disintegrate spell targeting the globe destroys it without harming anything inside.

OTTO'S IRRESISTIBLE DANCE
Level 6 Enchantment (Bard,Wizard)
Casting Time: Action Range: 30 feet Components: V
Duration: Concentration, up to 1 minute
One creature that you can see within range must make a Wisdom saving throw. On a successfulsave, the target dances comically until the end of its next turn, during which it must spend all its movement to dance in place.
On a failed save, the target has the Charmed con· dition for the duration. While Charmed, the target
dances comically, must use all its movement to dance in place, and has Disadvantage on Dexterity saving throws and attack rolls, and other creatures have Advantage on attack rolls against it. On each of its turns, the target can take an action to collect itself and repeat the save, ending the spell on itself on a success.

PASSWALL
Level 5 Transmutation (Wizard)
Casting Time: Action
Range: 30 feet
Components: V, S, M (a pinch of sesame seeds) Duration: 1 hour
A passage appears at a point that you can see on a wooden, plaster, or stone surface (such as a wall, ceiling, or Aoor) within range and lasts for the dura-tion. You choose the opening's dimensions: up to 5 feet wide, 8 feet tall, and 20 feet deep. The passage creates no instability in a structure surrounding it.
When the opening disappears, any creatures or objects still in the passage created by the spell are safely ejected to an unoccupied space nearest to the surface on which you cast the spell.

PASS WITHOUT TRACE
Level 2 Abjuration (Druid, Ranger)
Casting Time: Action
Range: Self
Components: V, S, M (ashes from burned mistletoe) Duration: Concentration, up to 1 hour
You radiate a concealing aura in a 30-foot Emana-tion for the duration. While in the aura, you and each creature you choose have a +10 bonus to Dex-terity (Stealth) checks and leave no tracks.





CHAPTER 7 I SPELLS	303


PHANTASMAL FORCE
Level 2 Illusion (Bard, Sorcerer,Wizard)
Casting Time: Action Range: 60 feet
Components: V, S, M (a bit of fleece) Duration: Concentration, up to 1 minute
You attempt to craft an illusion in the mind of a creature you can see within range.The target makes an Intelligence saving throw. On a failed
save, you create a phantasmal object, creature, or other phenomenon that is no larger than a l0-foot Cube and that is perceivable only to the target for the duration. The phantasm includes sound. tern· perature, and other stimuli.
The target can take a Study action to examine the phantasm with an Intelligence (Investigation) check against your spell save DC. If the check succeeds, the target realizes that tbe phantasm is an illusion, and the spell ends.
While affected by the spell, the target treats the phantasm as if it were real and rationalizes any ii· logical outcomes from interacting with it. F'or exam• pie, if the target steps through a phantasmal bridge and survives the fall. it believes the bridge exists and something else caused it to fall.
An affected target can even take damage from the illusion if the phantasm represents a dangerous creature or hazard. On each of your turns. such a phantasm can deal 2d8 Psychic damage to the tar· get if it is in the phantasm's area or within 5 feet of the phantasm. The target perceives the damage as a type appropriate to the illusion.

PHANTASMAL KILLER
Level 4 Illusion (Bard, Wizard)
Casting Time: Action Range: 120 feet Components: V, S
Duration: Concentration, up to 1 minute
You tap into the nightmares of a creature you can see within range and create an illusion of its deepest fears, visible only to that creature. The target makes a Wisdom saving throw. On a failed save, the target takes 4d10 Psychic damage and has Disadvantage on ability checks and attack rolls for the duration.
On a successful save, the target takes half as much damage, and the spell ends.
For the duration, the target makes a Wisdom sav· ing throw at the end of each of its turns. On a failed save, it takes the Psychic damage again. On a suc-cessful save, the spell ends.
Using a Higher-Level Spell Slot. The damage in• creases by ldl0 for each spell slot level above 4.




PHANTOM STEED
Level 3 Illusion (Wizard)
Casting Time: 1 minute or Ritual Range: 30 feet
Components: V, S Duration: 1 hour
A Large, quasi-real, horselike creature appears on the ground in an unoccupied space of your choice within range. You decide the creature's appearance, and it is equipped with a saddle, bit, and bridle. Any of the equipment created by the spell vanishes in a puff of smoke if it is carried more than 10 feet away from the steed.
For the duration, you or a creature you choose can ride the steed. The steed uses the Riding Horse stat block (see appendix B), except it has a Speed of 100 feet and can travel 13 miles in an hour. When the spell ends, the steed gradually fades, giving the rider l minute to dismount. The spell ends early if the steed takes any damage.

PLANAR ALLY
Level 6 Conjuration (Cleric)
Casting Time: 10 minutes Range: 60 feet Components: V, S Duration: Instantaneous
You beseech an otherworldly entity for aid. The being must be known to you: a god, a demon prince, or some other being of cosmic power.That entity


304	CHAPTER 7 I SPELLS
sends a Celestial, an Elemental, or a Fiend loyal to it to aid you, making the creature appear in an un-occupied space within range. If you know a specific creature's name, you can speak that name when you cast this spell to request that creature. though you might get a different creature anyway (DM's choice).
When the creature appears, it is under no com•
pulsion to behave a particular way. You can ask it to perform a service in exchange for payment, but it isn't obliged to do so. The requested task could range from simple (Ay us across the chasm, or help us fight a battle) to complex (spy on our enemies, or protect us during our foray into the dungeon). You must be able to communicate with the creature to bargain for its services.
Payment can take a variety of forms. A Celestial might require a sizable donation of gold or magic items to an allied temple, while a Fiend might de-mand a livingsacrifice ora giA: of treasure. Some creatures might exchange their service for a quest undertaken by you.
A task that can be measured in minutes requires a payment worth 100 GP per minute. A task mea-sured in hours requires 1,000 GP per hour. And
a task measured in days (up to IO days) requires 10,000 GP per day.The OM can adjust these pay-ments based on the circumstances under which you cast the spell. If the task is aligned with the crea-ture's ethos, the payment might be halved or even waived. Nonhazardous tasks typically require only half the suggested payment, while especially dan-gerous tasks might require a greater giA:. Creatures rarely accept tasks that seem suicidal.
AA:er the creature completes the task, or when the agreed-upon duration of service expires, the crea-ture returns to its home plane aA:er reporting back to you if possible. If you are unable to agree on a price for the creature's service, the creature imme-diately returns to its home plane.

PLANAR BINDING
Level 5 Abjuration (Bard,Cleric, Druid,Warlock. Wizard)
Casting Time: 1 hour Range: 60 feet
Component.s: V, S, M (a jewel worth 1,000+ GP, which the spell consumes)
Duration: 24 hours
You attempt to bind a Celestial, an Elemental.a Fey, or a Fiend to your service. The creature must be within range for the entire casting of the spell. (Typically, the creature is first summoned into the center of the inverted version of the Magic
Circle spell to trap it while this spell is cast.) At the
completion of the casting, the target must succeed on a Charisma saving throw or be bound to serve you for the duration. If the creature was summoned or created by another spell, that spell's duration is extended to match the duration of this spell.
A bound creature must follow your commands to the best of its ability. You might command the creature to accompany you on an adventure, to guard a location, or to deliver a message. If the creature is Hostile, it strives to twist your com·
mands to achieve its own objectives. If the creature carries out your commands completely before the spell ends, it travels to you to report this fact if you are on the same plane of existence. If you are on a different plane, it returns to the place where you bound it and remains there until the spell ends.
Using a Higher-Level Spell Slot. The duration in· creases with a spell slot of level 6 (10 days), 7 (30
days), 8 (180 days), and 9 (366 days).


PLANE SHiFT
Level 7 Conjura?ion (Cleric, Druid, S01-cerer, Warlock, Wizard)
Casting Time: Action Range:Touch
Components: V, S, M (a forked, metal rod worth 250+ GP and attuned to a plane of existence)
Duration: Instantaneous
You and up to eight willing creatures who link hands in a circle are transported to a different plane of existence. You can specify a target destination in general terms. such as the City of Brass on the Ele-mental Plane of Fire or the palace of Dispater on the second level of the Nine Hells, and you appear in or near that destination, as determined by the OM.
Alternatively, if you know the sigil sequence of a teleportation circle on another plane of existence, this spell can take you to that circle. If the telepor-tation circle is too small to hold all the creatures you transported, they appear in the closest unoccu-pied spaces next to the circle.


PLANT GROWTH
Level 3 Transmutation (Bard, Druid, Ranger)
Casting Time: Action (Overgrowth) or 8 hours (Enrichment)
Range:1SO feet Components: V, S Duration: Instantaneous
Thisspell channels vitality into plants. The casting time you use determines whether the spell has the Overgrowth or the Enrichment effect below.
Overgrowth. Choose a point within range.All normal plants in a 100-foot-radius Sphere centered
CHAPTER 7 I SPELLS	305
on that point become thick and overgrown. A crea· ture moving through that area must spend 4 feet of movement for every J foot it moves. You can exclude one or more areas of any size within the spell's area from beingaffected.
Enrichment. All plants in a half-mile radius cen· tered on a point within range become enriched for 365 days. The plants yield twice the normal amount of food when harvested. Theycan benefit from only one Plant Growth per year.

POISON SPRAY
Necromancy Cantrip(Druid, Sorcerer; Warlock, Wizard)
Casting Time: Action Range: 30 feet Components: V, S Duration: Instantaneous
You spray toxic mist at a creature within range. Make a ranged spell attack against the target. On a hit, the target takes ldl2 Poison damage.
Cantrip Upgrade. The damage increases by ldl2 when you reach levels 5 (2d12), 11 (3d12), and 17 (4d12).

POLYMORPH
Level 4 Transmutation (Bard, Druid,Sorcerer, Wizard)
Casting Time: Action
Range: 60 feet
Components: V, S, M (a caterpillar cocoon) Duration: Concentration, up to 1 hour
You attempt to transform a creature that you can see within range into a Beast. The target must suc-ceed on a Wisdom saving throw or shape-shift into a Beast form for the duration. That form can be any Beast you choose that has a Challenge Rating equal to or less than the target's (or the target's level if
it doesn't have a Challenge Rating). The target's gamestatistics are replaced by the stat block of the chosen Beast, but the target retains its alignment, personality, creature type, Hit Points, and Hit Point Dice.See appendix 8 for a sample of Beast stat blocks.
The target gains a number of Temporary Hit Points equal to the Hit Points of the Beast form.The spell ends early on the target if it has no Temporary Hit Points left.
The target is limited in the actions it can perform by the anatomy of its new form, and it can't speak or cast spells.
The target's gear melds into the new form.The creature can't use or otherwise benefit from any of that equipment.

POWER WORD FORTIFY
Level 7 Enchantment (Bard, Cleric)
Casting Time: Action Range: 60 feet Component: V Duration: Instantaneous
You fortify up tosix creatures you can see within range. The spell bestows 120Temporary Hit Points, which you divide among the spell's recipients.

POWER WORD HEAL
Level 9 Enchantment (Bard, Cleric)
Casting Time: Action Range: 60 feet Component: V Duration: Instantaneous
A wave of healing energy washes over one creature you can see within range. The target regains all its Hit Points. If the creature has the Charmed, Fright· ened, Paralyzed, Poisoned, or Stunned condition, the condition ends. If the creature has the Prone condition. it can use its Reaction to stand up.

POWER WORD KILL
Level 9 Enchantment (Bard, Sorcerer,Warlock,Wizard)
Casting Time: Action Range: 60 feet Component: V Duration: Instantaneous
You compel one creature you can see within range to die. If the target has 100 Hit Points or fewer, it dies. Otherwise, it takes 12d12 Psychic damage.

POWER WORD STUN
Level 8 Enchantment (Bard, Sorcerer, Warlock,Wizard)
Casting Time: Action Range: 60 feet Components: V Duration: Instantaneous
You overwhelm the mind of one creature you can see within range. If the target has 150 Hit Points or fewer, it has the Stunned condition. Otherwise, its Speed is O until the start of your next turn.
TheStunned target makes a Constitution saving throw at the end of each of its turns, ending the condition on itself on a success.



306	CHAPTER 7 I SPELLS

PRAYER OF HEALING
Level 2 Abjuration (Cleric, Paladin)
Casting Time: 10 minutes Range: 30 feet Components: V
Duration: Instantaneous
Up to five creatures of your choice who remain within range for the spell's entire casting gain the benefits of a Short Rest and also regain 2d8 Hit Points. A creature can't be affected by this spell again until that creature finishes a Long Rest.
Using a Higher-Level Spell Slot.The healing in• creases by ld8 for each spell slot level above 2.


PRESTIDIGITATION
Tmnsmutation Cantrip (Bard, Sorcerer; Warlock, Wizard)
Casting Time: Action Range: 10 feet Components: V, S Duration: Up to 1 hour
You create a magical effect within range. Choose the effect from the options below. If you cast this spell multiple times, you can have up to three of its non-instantaneous effects active at a time.
Sensory Effect. You create an instantaneous, harmless sensory effect. such as a shower of sparks, a puff of wind, faint musical notes. or an odd odor.
Fire Play. You instantaneously light or snuff out a candle, a torch, or a small campfire.
Clean or Soil. You instantaneously clean or soil an object no larger than 1 cubic foot.
Minor Sensation. You chill, warm, or flavor up to I cubic foot of nonliving material for I hour.
Magic Mark. You make a color, a small mark, or a
symbol appear on an object or a surface for 1 hour.
Minor Creation. You create a nonmagical trinket or an illusory image that can fit in your hand. It lasts until the end of your next turn. A trinket can deal no damage and has no monetary worth.

PRISMATIC SPRAY
Level7 Evocation (Bard,Sorcerer; Wizard)
Casting Time:Action Range: Self Components: V, S Duration: Instantaneous
Eight raysof light Aash from you in a 60·foot Cone. Each creature in the Cone makes a Dexterity saving throw. For each target, roll Jd8 to determine which color ray affects it, consulting the Prismatic Rays table.






































A OW/1,RP HAO AN UNFORTUNATI;. ENC.OUNTER WITM fME INOIC.0 RAV OF P?1$MA11C SPRAY


PRISMATIC RAYS
1d8 Ray
Red. Failed Save: 12d6 Fire damage. Successful Save: Half as much damage.
    2 Orange. Foiled Save: 12d6 Acid damage. Suc-cessful Save: Half as much damage.
    3 Yellow. Foiled Save: 12d6 Lightning damage.
Successful Save: Half as much damage.
    4 Green. Foiled Save: 12d6 Poison damage. Sue• cessful Save: Half as much damage.
    5 Blue. Failed Save: 12d6 Cold damage. Success• Jul Save: Half as much damage.
    6 Indigo. Failed Save:The target has the Re• strained condition and makes a Constitution saving throw at the end of each of its turns. If it successfully saves three times, the condition ends. If it fails three times, it has the Petrified condition until it is freed by an effect like the Greater Restoration spell. The successes and failures needn't be consecutive; keep track of both until the target collects three of a kind.
    7 Violet. Failed Save:The target has the Blinded condition and makes a Wisdom saving throw at the start of your next turn. On a successful save, the condition ends. On a failed save, the condition ends, and the creature teleports to another plane of existence (DM's choice).
    8 Special. The target is struck by two rays. Roll twice, rerolling any 8.
CHAPTER 7 I SPELLS	307

PRISMATIC WALL
Level 9 Abjuration (Bard,Wizard)
Casting Time: Action Range: 60 feet Components: V, S Duration: 10 minutes
A shimmering, multicolored plane of light forms a vertical opaque wall-up to 90 feet long, 30 feet high, and I inch thick-centered on a point within
range. Alternatively,you shape the wall into a globe up to 30 feet in diameter centered on a point within range.The wall lasts for the duration. If you posi· lion the wall in a space occupied by a creature, the spell ends instantly without effect.
The wall sheds Bright Light within JOO feet and Dim Light for an additional 100 feet. You and crea· tures you designate when you cast thespell can pass through and be near the wall without harm. If another creature that can see the wall moves within 20 feet of it or starts its turn there, the creature must succeed on a Constitution saving throw or have the Blinded condition for I minute.
The wall consists of seven layers. each with a different color. When a creature reaches into or passes through the wall. it doesso one layer at a time through all the layers. Each layer forces the creature to make a Dexterity saving throw or be af-fected by that layer's properties as described in the Prismatic Layers table.
The wall, which has AC 10. can be destroyed one layer at a time, in order from red to violet, by means specific to each layer. If a layer is destroyed. it is gone for the duration. Aritimagic Field has no effect on the wall, and Dispel Magic can affect only the vio· let layer.


PRODUCE FLAME
Co11juraNon Cantrip (Druid)
Casting Time: Bonus Action
Range: Self Components: V, S Duration: 10 minutes
Aflickering flame appears in your hand and remains there for the duration. While there, the Aame emits no heat and ignites nothing, and it sheds Bright Light in a 20-foot radius and Dim Light for an addi-tional 20 feet. The spell ends if you cast it again.
Until the spell ends, you can take a Magic action to hurl fire at a creature or an object within 60 feet of you. Make a ranged spell attack. On a hit, the tar· get takes 1d8 Fire damage.
Cantrip Upgrade. The damage increases by ld8
when you reach levels 5 (2d8), II (3d8), and 17 (4d8).
PRISMATIC LAYERS
Order  Effects
Red. Foiled Save: 12d6 Fire damage. Success-ful Save: Half as much damage. Additional Effects: Nonmagical ranged attacks can"t pass through this layer, which is destroyed if it takes at least 25 Cold damage.
    2 Orange. Foiled Save: 12d6 Acid damage. Successful Save: Half as much damage. Ad-ditional Effects: Magical ranged attacks can"t pass through this layer, which is destroyed by a strongwind (such as the one created by Gust of Wind).
    3 Yellow. Foiled Save: 12d6 Lightning damage. Successful Save: Half as much damage. Addi• tionol Effects:The layer is destroyed ifit takes at least 60 Force damage.
    4 Green. Foiled Save:12d6 Poison damage. Successful Save: Half as much damage. Ad-ditional Effects: A Posswa/1 spell, or another spell of equal or greater level that can open a portal on a solid surface, destroys this layer.
    5 Blue. Foiled Save:12d6 Cold damage. Sue• cessful Save: Half as much damage. Addi-tional Effects: The layer is destroyed if it takes at least 25 Fire damage.
    6 Indigo. Failed Save: The target has the Re-strained condition and makes a Constitu• tion saving throw at the end of each of its turns. lfit successfully saves three times, the condition ends. If it fails three times. it has the Petrified condition until it is freed by an effect like the Greater Restoration spell. The successes and failures needn't be con-secutive: keep track of both until the target collects three of a kind. Additional Effects:
Spells can't be cast through this layer, which is destroyed by Bright light shed by the Day-light spell.
    7 Violet. Failed Save: The target has the Blinded condition and makes a Wisdom sav-ing throw at the start of your next turn. On
a successful save. the condition ends. On a failed save, the condition ends, and the crea-ture teleports to another plane of existence (DM's choice). Additional Effects:This layer is destroyed by Dispel Magic.


308	CHAPTER 7 I SPELLS


A SPf:U.C.ASTŁR COULD USE

PROGRIIMM?O 1LLU$10H TO CAUSI!. A WATC.. 006 TO APPEAR ANO ICINOLV


































PROGRAMMED lLLUStoN
Level 6 Illusion (Bard,Wizard)
Casting Time: Action
Range: 120 feet
Components: V, S, M (jade dust worth 25+ GP) Duration: Until dispelled
You create an musion of an object, a creature, or some other visible phenomenon within range that activates when a specific trigger occurs. The illusion is imperceptible until then. It must be no larger than a 30-foot Cube, and you decide when you cast the spell how the illusion behaves and what sounds it makes. This scripted performance can last up to 5 minutes.
When the trigger youspecify occurs, the illusion springs into existence and performs in the manner you described. Once the illusion finishes perform-ing, it disappears and remains dormant for 10 min-utes, after which the illusion can be activated again.
The trigger can be as genera I or as detailed as you like. though it must be based on visual or audible phenomena that occur within 30 feet of the area. For example, you could create an illusion of yourself to appear and warn off others who attempt to open a trapped door.
Physical interaction with the image reveals it to be illusory, since things can pass through it. A creature that takes the Study action to examine the image can determine that it is an illusion with a successful Intelligence (Investigation) check against your spell save DC.If a creature discerns the illusion for what it is, the creature can see through the image, and any noise it makes sounds hollow to the creature.
PROJECT IMAGE
Level 711/usion (Bard, Wizard)
Casting Time: Action
Range: 500 miles
Components: V, S, M (a statuette of yourself worth
5+ GP)
Duration: Concentration, up to l day
You create an illusory copy of yourself that lasts for the duration. The copycan appear at any location within range that you have seen before, regardless of intervening obstacles. The illusion looks and sounds like you, but it is intangible. If the illusion takes anydamage, it disappears. and the spell ends.
You can see through the illusion's eyes and hear through its ears as if you were in its space. As a Magic action. you can move it up to 60 feet and make it gesture, speak,and behave in whatever way you choose. It mimics your mannerisms perfectly.
Physical interaction with the image reveals it to be illusory. since things can pass through it. A creature that takes the Study action to examine the image can determine that it is an illusion ,?ith a successful Intelligence (Investigation) check against your spell save DC. If a creature discerns the illusion for what it is, the creature can see through the image, and any noise it makes sounds hollow to the creature.


PROTECTION FROM ENERGY
Level3 Abjuration (Cleric, Druid, Ranger, Sorcerer;
Wizard)
Casting Time: Action Range:Touch Components: V, S
Duration: Concentration, up to l hour
For the duration, the willing creature you touch has Resistance to one damage type of your choice: Acid, Cold, Fire, Lightning, or Thunder.

PROTECTION FROM EVIL ANDGooo
Level I Abjuration (Cleric, Druid, Paladin, Warlock,
Wizard)
Casting Time: Action
Range: Touch
Components: V, S, M (a flask of Holy Water worth 25+ GP, which the spell consumes)
Dural.ion: Concentration up to 10 minutes
Until the spell ends, one willing creature you touch is protected against creatures that are Aberrations, Celestials, Elementals, Fey, Fiends, or Undead.
The protection grantsseveral benefits. Creatures of those types have Disadvantage on attack rolls
CHAPTER 7 I SPELLS	309





























against the target. The target also can't be pos-sessed by or gain the Charmed or Frightened condi-tions from them. If the target is already possessed, Charmed, or Frightened bysuch a creature, the tar-get has Advantage on any new saving throw against the relevant effect.

PROTECTION FROM POISON
Level2 Abjuration (Cleric, Druid, Paladin. Ranger)
Casting Time: Action Range: Touch Components: V, S Duration: 1 hour
You touch a creature and end the Poisoned condi-tion on it. For the duration, the target has Advan-tage on saving throws to avoid or end the Poisoned condition, and it has Resistance to Poison damage.

PURIFY FOOD AND DRINK
Level I Transmutation (Cleric, Dn,id, Paladin)
Casting Time: Action or Ritual Range: 10 feet
Components: V, S Duration: Instantaneous
You remove poison and rot from nonmagical food and drink in a 5-foot-radius Sphere centered on a point within range.

RAISE DEAD
Leve/ S Necromancy (Bard,Cleric, Paladin)
Casting Time: 1 hour Range: Touch
Components: V, S, M (a diamond worth 500+ GP, which the spell consumes)
Duration: Instantaneous
With a touch, you revive a dead creature if it has been dead no longer than 10 days and it wasn't Un-dead wben it died.
The creature returns to life with 1 Hit Point. This spell also neutralizes any poisons that affected the creature at the time of death.
Thisspell closes all mortal wounds, but it doesn't restore missing body parts. If the creature is Jacking body parts or organs integral for its survival-its head, for instance-the spell automatically fails.
Coming back from the dead is an ordeal.The tar-get takes a -4 penalty to D20 Tests. Every time the target finishes a Long Rest, the penalty is reduced by 1 until it becomes 0.


3JO	CHAPTER 7 I SPELLS
RARY'S TELEPATHIC BOND
Level 5 Divination (Bard.Wizard)
Casting Time: Action or Ritual
Range: 30 feet
Components: V, S, M (two eggs) Duration: 1 hour
You forge a telepathic link among up to eight willing creatures of your choice within range, psychically linkingeach creature to all the others for the dura-tion. Creatures that can't communicate in any lan-guages aren't affected by this spell.
Until the spell ends, the targets can communicate telepathically through the bond whether or not they share a language. The communication is possible over anydistance, though it can't extend to other planes of existence.

RAY OF ENFEEBLEMENT
Level 2 Necromancy (Warlock,Wizard)
Casting Time: Action Range: 60 feet Components: V, S
Duration: Concentration, up to 1 minute
A beam of enervating energy shoots from you toward a creature within range. The target must make a Constitution saving throw. On a successful save, the target has Disadvantage on the next attack roll it makes until the start of your next turn.
On a failed save. the target has Disadvantage on Strength-based D20 Tests for the duration. During that time, it also subtracts ld8 from all its damage rolls. The target repeats the save at the end of each of its turns, ending the spell on a success.

RAY OF FROST
Evocation Cantrip (Sorcerer, Wizard)
Casting Time:Action Range: 60 feet Components: V, S Duration: Instantaneous
A frigid beam of blue-white light streaks toward a creature within range. Make a ranged spell attack against the target. On a hit, it takes ld8 Cold dam-age, and its Speed is reduced by 10 feet until the start of your next turn.
Cantrip Upg.-ade. The damage increases by ld8 when you reach levels 5 (2d8), 11 (3d8), and 17 (4d8).
RAY Of SlOKNESS
Level I Necromancy (Sorcerer, Wizard)
Casting Time: Action Range: 60 feet Components: V, S Duration: Instantaneous
You shoot a greenish ray at a creature within range. Make a ranged spell attack against the target. On a hit, the target takes 2d8 Poison damage and has the Poisoned condition until the end of your next turn.
Using a Higher-Level Spell Slot. The damage in-creases by ld8 for each spell slot level above I.

REGEN.ERA1'Ł
Level 7 Transmutation (Bard, Cleric, Druid)
Casting Time: 1 minute Range: Touch
Components: V, S, M (a prayer wheel) Duration: 1 hour
A creature you touch regains 4d8 + IS Hit Points. For the duration, the target regains 1 Hit Point at the start of each of its turns, and any severed body parts regrow aA:er 2 minutes.

REINCARNATE
Level 5 Necromancy (Druid)
Casting Time: 1 hour Range:Touch
Components: V, S, M (rare oils worth 1,000+ GP,
which the spell consumes) Duration: Instantaneous
You touch a dead Humanoid or a piece of one. If the creature has been dead no longer than 10 days, the spell forms a new body for it and calls the soul to enter that body. Roll ldlO and consult the table below to determine the body's species, or the DM chooses another playable species.

ldl0	Species	ldl0	Species
	Aasimar	6	Goliath
2	Dragonborn	7	Halfling
3	Dwarf	8	Human
4	Elf	9	Ore
s	Gnome	10	Tiefling
The reincarnated creature makes any choices that a species' description offers, and the creature recalls its former life. It retains the capabilities it had in its original form, except it loses the traits of its previ-ous species and gains the tra.its of its new one.


CHA PTŁR 7 I SPELLS	3n
REMOVE CURSE
Level 3 Abjuration (Cleric, Paladin, Warlock, Wizard)
Casting Time: Action Range: Touch Components: V, S Duration: Instantaneous
At your touch, all curses affecting one creature or object end. If the object is a cursed magic item, its curse remains, but the spell breaks its owner's Attunement to the object so it can be removed or discarded.

RESISTANCE
Abjuration Cantrip (Cleric, Druid)
Casting Time: Action Range: Touch Component: V, S
Duration: Concentration, up to l minute
You touch a willing creature and choose a damage type: Acid, Bludgeoning, Cold, Fire, Lightning, Ne-crotic, Piercing, Poison, Radiant, Slashing, or Thun-der. When the creature takes damage of the chosen type before the spell ends, the creature reduces the total damage t.aken by ld4. A creature can benefit from this spell only once per turn.

RESURRECTION
Level 7 Necromancy (Bard, Cleric)
Casting Time: l hour Range:Touch
Components: V, S, M (a diamond worth 1,000+ GP, which the spell consumes)
Duration: Instantaneous
With a touch, you revive a dead creature that has been dead for no more than a century, didn't die of old age, and wasn't Undead when it died.
The creature returns to life with all its Hit Points. This spell also neutralizes any poisons that affected the creature at the time of death. This spell closes all mortal wounds and restores any missing body parts.
Coming back from the dead is an ordeal. The tar-get takes a -4 penalty to 020 Tests. Every time the target finishes a Long Rest, the penalty is reduced by I until it becomes 0.
Casting this spell to revive a creature that has been dead for 365 days or longer taxes you. Until you finish a Long Rest, you can't cast spells again, and you have Disadvantage on 020 Tests.
REVERSE GRAVITY
Level 7 Transmutation (Druid, Sorcerer,Wizard)
Casting Time: Action
Range: 100 feet
Components: V, S, M (a lodestone and iron filings) Duration: Concentration, up to l minute
This spell reverses gravity in a SO-foot-radius, 100-foot high Cylinder centered on a point within range. All creatures and objects in that area that aren't anchored to the ground fall upward and reach the top of the Cylinder. A creature can make a Dexter-ity saving throw to grab a fixed object it can reach, thus avoiding the fall upward.
If a ceiling or an anchored object is encountered in this upward fall, creatures and objects strike it just as they would duringa downward fall. If an af-fected creature or object reaches the Cylinder's top without strikinganything, it hovers there for the duration. When the spell ends, affected objects and creatures fall downward.

REVIVIFY
Level 3 Necromancy (Cleric, Druid, Paladin, Ranger)
Casting Time: Action Range:Touch
Components: V, S, M (a diamond worth 300+ GP, which the spell consumes)
Duration: Instantaneous
You touch a creature that has died within the last minute. That creature revives with 1 Hit Point. This spell can't revive a creature that has died of old age, nor does it restore any missing body parts.

ROPE TRICK
Level 2 'lransmutation(Wizard)
Casting Time: Action
Range: Touch
Components: V, S, M (a segment of rope) Duration: l hour
You touch a rope. One end of it hovers upward until the rope hangs perpendicular to the ground or the rope reaches a ceiling. At the rope's upper end, an Invisible 3-foot-by-5-foot portal opens to an extra-dimensional space that lasts until the spell ends.
That space can be reached by climbing the rope, which can be pulled into or dropped out ofit.
The space can hold up to eight Medium or smaller creatures. Attacks,spells, and other effects can't pass into or out of the space, but creatures inside
it can see through the portal. Anything inside the space drops out when the spell ends.


312	CHAPTER 7 I SPELLS
































SACRED FLAME
Evocation Cantrip (Cleric)
Casting Time: Action Range: 60 feet Components: V, S Duration: Instantaneous
Flame-like radiance descends on a creature that you can see within range. The target must succeed on
a Dexterity saving throw or take ld8 Radiant dam-age. The target gains no benefit from Half Cover or Three-Quarters Cover for this save.
Cantrip Upgrade. The damage increases byld8 when you reach levels 5 (2d8), 11 (3d8), and 17 (4d8).

SANCTUARY
Leve/ 1Abjuration (Cleric)
Casting Time: Bonus Action
Range: 30 feet
Components: V, S, M (a shard of glass from a mirror) Duration: 1 minute
You ward a creature within ,·ange. Until the spell ends, any creature who targets the warded creature with an attack roll or a damaging spell must succeed on a Wisdom saving th row or either choose a new target or lose the attack or spell. This spell doesn't protect the warded creature from areas of effect.
The spell ends if the warded creature makes an at-tack roll, casts a spell, or deals damage.
SCORCHING RAY
Level 2 Evocation (Sorcerer, Wizard)
Casting Time: Action Range: 120 feet Components: V, S Duration: Instantaneous
You hurl three fiery rays. You can hurl them at one target within range or at several. Make a ranged spell attack for each ray. On a hit, the target takes 2d6 Fire damage.
Using a Higher-Level Spell Slot. You create one ad-ditional ray for each spell slot level above 2.


SCRYING
Level S Divination (Bard,Cleric, Druid, Warlock, Wizard)
Casting Time: 10 minutes
Range: Self
Components: V, S, M (a focus worth 1,000+ GP, such as a crystal ball, mirror, or water-filled font)
Duration: Concentration, up to 10 minutes
You can see and hear a creature you choose that is on the same plane of existence as you.The target makes a Wisdom saving throw, which is modified (see the tables below) by how well you know the target and the sort of physical connection you have

CHAPTER 7 I SPELLS
to it. The target doesn't know what it is making the save against. only that it feels uneasy.

SEEMING
Your Knowledge of the Target Is ... Secondhand (heard of the target) Firsthand (met the target) Extensive (know the target well)
Save Modifier
+5
+O
-5
Level 5 Illusion (Bard, Sorcerer,Wizard)
Casting Time: Action Range: 30 feet Components: V, S Duration: 8 hours
You Have the Target's ...	Save Modifier Picture or other likeness		-2
Garment or other possession	-4
Body part, lock of hair, or bit of nail	-10
On a successful save, the target isn't affected, and you can't use this spell on it agai11 for 24 hours.
On a failed save, the spell creates an Invisible, intangible sensor within 10 feet of the target. You can see and hear th,·ough the sensor as if you were there.The sensor moves with the target, remaining within 10 feet of it for the duration. Jrsomething can see the sensor, it appears as a luminous orb about the size of your fist.
Instead of targeting a creature, you can target a location you have seen. When you do so, the sensor appears at that location and doesn't move.

SEARING SMITE
Level I Evocation (Paladin)
Casting Time: Bonus Action, which you take immedi-ately after hitting a target with a Melee weapon or an Unarmed Strike
Range: Self Component: V Duration: 1 minute
As you hit the target, it takesan extra ld6 Fire dam· age from the attack. At the start of each of its turns until the spell ends. the target takes ld6 Fire dam· age and then makes a Constitution saving throw.
On a failed save, the spell continues. On a successful save, the spell ends.
Using a Higher-Level Spell Slot.All the damage in·
creases by ld6 for each spell slot level above1.

SEE lNVISIBI LITY
Level 2 Divination (Bard,Sorcerer, Wizard)
Casting Time: Action Range: Self
Components: V, S, M (a pinch of talc) Duration: 1 hour
For the duration. you see creatures and objects that have the Invisible condition as if they were visible, and you can see into the Ethereal Plane. Creatures and objects there appear ghostly.
You givean illusory appearance to each creature of your choice that you can see within range. An un· willing target can make a Charisma saving throw, and if it succeeds, it is unaffected by thisspell.
You can give the same appearance or different ones to the targets. The spell can change the ap· peara11ce of the targets' bodies and equipment. You can make each creature seem l foot shorter or taller and appear heavier or lighter. A target's new ap· pearance must have the same basic arrangement of limbs as the target, but the extent of the illusion is othern•ise up to you.The spell lasts for the duration.
The changes wrought by thisspell fail to hold up to physical inspection. For example, if you use this spell to add a hat to a creature's outfit. objects pass through the hat.
A creature that takes the Studyaction to examine
a target can make an Intelligence (Investigation) check against your spell save DC. If it succeeds, it becomes aware that the target is disguised.


SENDING
Level 3 Divination (Bard,Cleric, Wizard)
Casting Time: Action
Range: Unlimited
Components: V, S, M (a copper wire) Duration: Instantaneous
You send a short message of 25 words or fewer to a creature you have met or a creature described to you by someone who has met it.The target hears the message in its mind, recognizes you as the sender if it knows you, and can answer in a like manner immediately. The spell enables targets to understand the meaning of your message.
You can send the message across any distance and even to other planes of existence, but if the target is on a different plane than you, there is a 5 percent chance that the message doesn't arrive. You know if the delivery fails.
Upon receiving your message, a creature can
block your ability to reach it again with this spell for 8 hours. If you try to send another message during that time, you learn that you are blocked, and the spell foils.


314	CHAPTER 7 I SPELLS



































SEQ.VESTER
Level 7 Transmutation (Wizal'd)
Casting Time: Action Range:Touch
Components: V, S, M (gem dust worth 5,000+ GP, which the spell consumes)
Duration: Until dispelled
With a touch, you magically sequester an object or a willing creature. For the duration, the target has the Invisible condition and can't be targeted by Divina-tion spells, detected by magic, or viewed remotely with magic.
If the target is a creature. it enters a state of sus-pended animation; it has the Unconscious condition, doesn't age, and doesn't need food, water, or air.
You can set a condition for the spell to end early. The condition can be anything you choose, but it must occur or be visible within I mile of the target. Examples include "after 1,000 years" or "when the tarrasque awakens." This spell also ends if the tar· get takes anydamage.

SHAPECHANOE
Level 9 Transmutation (Druid, Wizard)
Casting Time: Action
Range: Self
Components: V, S, M (a jade circlet worth 1,500+ GP) Duration: Concentration, up to l hour
You shape-shift into another creature for the dura-tion or untiJ you take a Magic action to shape-shift into a different eligible form. The new form must be of a creature that has a Challenge Rating no higher than your level or Challenge Rating. You must have seen the sort of creature before, and it can't be a Construct or an Undead.
When you shape-shift, you gain a number of Temporary Hit Points equal to the Hit Points of the form. The spell ends early if you have no Temporary Hit Points left.
Your game statistics are replaced by the stat block of the chosen form, but you retain your creature type; alignment; personality; Intelligence. Wisdom, and Charisma scores: Hit Points; Hit Point Dice; proficiencies;and ability to communicate. If you have the Spellcasting feature, you retain it too.
Upon shape-shifting, you determine whether your equipment drops to the ground or changes in size and shape to fit the new form while you're in it.
CHAPTER 7 J SPELLS	315


SHATTER
Level 2 Evocation (Bard, Sorcerer,Wizard)
Casting Time: Action
Range: 60 feet
Components: V, S, M (a chip of mica) Duration: Instantaneous
A loud noise erupts from a point of your choice within range. Each creature in a10-foot-radius Sphere centered there makes a Constitution saving throw, taking 3d8 Thunder damage on a failed save or half as much damage on a successful one. A Con-struct has Disadvantage on the save.
A nonmagical object that isn't being worn or car-ried also takes the damage if it's in the spell's area.
Usinga Higher-Level Spell Slot.The damage in-creases by ld8 for each spell slot level above 2.

SHIELD
Level I Abjuration (Sorcere,; Wizard)
Casting Time: Reaction, which you take when you are hit by an attack roll or targeted by the Magic Missile spell
Range: Self Components: V, S Duration: 1 round
An imperceptible barrier of magical force protects you. Until the start of your next turn, you have a +S bonus to AC, including against the triggering attack, and you take no damage from Magic Missile.


SHIELD OF FAITH
Level I Abjuratio11 (Cleric, Paladi11)
Casting Time: Bonus Action
Range: 60 feet
Components: V, S, M (a prayer scroll)
Duration: Concentration, up to 10 minutes
A shimmering field surrounds a creature of your choice within range, granting it a +2 bonus to AC for the duration.

SHILLELAGH
Tra11smutation Cantrip (Druid)
Casting Time: Bonus Action
Range:Self
Components: V,S, M (mistletoe) Duration: 1 minute
A Club or Quarterstaff you are holding is imbued with nature's power. For the duration, you can use your spellcasting ability instead of Strength for the attack and damage rolls of melee attacks using that
weapon, and the weapon's damage die becomes a d8. If the attack deals damage, it can be Force damage or the weapon's normal damage type (your choice).
The spell ends early if you cast it again or if you let go of the weapon.
Cantrip Upgrade. The damage die changes when
you reach levels S (dlO), 11(d12). and 17 (2d6).


SHINING SMITE
Level 2Transmutation (Paladin)
Casting Time: Bonus Action, which you take immedi-ately after hitting a creature with a Melee weapon or an Unarmed Strike
Range: Self Component: V
Duration: Concentration, up to 1 minute
The target hit by the strike takes an extra 2d6 Radi-ant damage from the attack. Until the spell ends, the target sheds Bright Light in a 5-foot radius, attack rolls against it have Advantage, and it can't benefit from the Invisible condition.
Usinga Higher-Level Spell Slot. The damage in-creases by ld6 for each spell slot level above 2.

SHOCKING GRASP
Evocation Cantrip (Sorcerer, Wizard)
Casting Time: Action Range:Touch Components: V, S Duration: Instantaneous
Lightning springs from you to a creature that you try to touch. Make a melee spel.l attack against the target. On a hit, the target takes ld8 Lightning dam· age, and it can't make Opportunity Attacks until the start of its next turn.
Cantrip Upgrade. The damage increases by ld8 when you reach levels S (2d8), II (3d8), and 17 (4d8).


SILENCE
Level 2 Illusion (Bard, Cleric, Ranger)
Casting Time: Action or Ritual
Range: 120 feet Components: V, S
Duration: Concentration, up to 10 minutes
For the duration, no sound can be created within or pass through a 20-foot-radius Sphere centered on a point you choose within range. Any creature or object entirely i.nside the Sphere has Immunity to Thunder damage, and creatures have the Deaf-ened condition while entirely inside it. Casting a
spell that includes a Verbal component is impossible there.

3r6	CHAPTER? I SPELLS






















SILENT IMAGE
Level J Illusion (Bard, Sorcerer,Wizard)
Casting Time: Action Range: 60 feet
Components: V, S, M (a bit of fleece) Duration: Concentration, up to 10 minutes
You create the image of an object, a creature, or some other visible phenomenon that is no larger than a IS-foot Cube.The image appears at a spot within range and lasts for the duration. The image is purely visual; it isn't accompanied by sound, smell, or other sensory effects.
As a Magic action, you can cause the image to move to any spot within range. As the image
changes location, you can alter its appearance so that its movements appear natural for the image. For example, if you create an image of a creature and move it, you can alter the image so that it ap-pears to be walking,
Physical interaction with the image reveals it to be an illusion, since things can pass through it. Acrea· ture that takes a Study action to examine tbe image can determine that it is an illusion with a successful Intelligence (Investigation) check against your spell save DC. If a creatw·e discerns the illusion for what it is, the creature can see through the image.

SIMULACRUM
Level 7 Illusion (Wizard)
Casting Time: 12 hours
Range:Touch
Components: V, S, M (powdered ruby worth 1,500+ GP, which the spell consumes)
Duration: Until dispelled
You create a simulacrum of one Beast or Humanoid that is within 10 feet of you for the entire casting of the spell. You finish the casting by touching both
the creature and a pile of ice or snow that is the same size as that creature, and the pile turns into the simulacrum, which is a creature. It uses the gamestatistics of the original creature at the time of casting, except it is a Construct, its Hit Point maximum is half as much, and it can't cast this spell.
The simulacrum is Friendly to you and creatures you designate. It obeys your commands and acts on your turn in combat.The simulacrum can't gain lev-els, and it can't take Short or Long Rests.
If the simulacrum takes damage, the only way to restore its Hit Points is to repair it as you take a Long Rest, during which you expend components worth 100 GP per Hit Point restored. The simula-crum must stay within 5 feet of you for the repair.
The simulacrum lasts until it drops to O Hit Points, at which point it reverts to snow and melts
away. If you cast this spell again, anysimulacrum you created with this spell is instantly destroyed.

SLEEP
Level I Enchantment (Bard, Sorcerer,Wizard)
Casting Time: Action Range: 60 feet
Components: V, S, M (a pinch of sand or rose petals) Duration: Concentration, up to 1 minute
Each creature of your choice in a 5-foot·radius Sphere centered on a point within range must suc-ceed on a Wisdom saving throw or have the Inca-pacitated condition until the end of its next turn, at which point it must repeat the save. If the target
fails the second save, the target has the Unconscious condition for the duration. The spell ends on a tar-get if it takes damage or someone within 5 feet of it takes an action to shake it out of the spell's effect.
Creatures that don't sleep, such as elves, or that have Immunity to the Exhaustion condition auto-matically succeed on saves against thi.s spell.

SLEET STORM
Level3 Conjuration (Druid,Sorcerer, Wizard)
Casting Time: Action Range: 150 feet
Components: V, S, M (a miniature umbrella) Duration: Concentration, up to 1 minute
Until the spell ends,sleet falls in a 40·foot-tall, 20-foot-radius Cylinder centered on a point you
choose within range.The area is Heavily Obscured, and exposed flames in the area are doused.
Ground in the Cylinder is Difficult Terrain. When a creature enters the Cylinder for the first time on a turn or starts its turn there, it must succeed on a Dexterity saving throw or have the Prone condition and lose Concentration.
CHAPTER 7 I SPELLS	317
SLOW
uvel3Transmutation (Bard, Sorcerer.Wizard)
Casting Time: Action Range: 120 feet
Components: V, S, M (a drop of molasses) Duration: Concentration, up to 1 minute
You alter time around up to six creatures of your choice in a 40-foot Cube within range. Each target must succeed on a Wisdom saving throw or be af-fected by this spell for the duration.
An affected target's Speed is halved, it takes a -2 penalty to AC and Dexterity saving throws, and it can't take Reactions. On its turns, it can take either an action or a Bonus Action, not both. and it can make only one attack if it takes the Attack action. If it casts a spell with a Somatic component, there is a 25 percent chance the spell fails as a result of the target making the spell's gestures too slowly.
An affected target repeats the save at the end of each of its turns, ending the spell on itself on a success.

SoRCEROIJS BURST
Cantrip Evocation (Sorcerer)
Casting Time: Action Range: 120 feet Component: V, S Duration: Instantaneous
You cast sorcerous energy at one creature or object within range. Make a ranged attac.k roll against the target. On a hit, the target takes ld8 damage ofa type you choose: Acid, Cold, Fire, Lightning, Poison, Psychic, or Thunder.
If you roll an 8 on a d8 for this spell, you can roll another d8,and add it to the damage. When you cast this spell, the maximum number of these d8s you can add to the spell's damage equals your spell· castingability modifier.
Cantrip Upgrade. The damage increases by Jd8
when you reach levels 5 (2d8), II (3d8), and 17 (4d8).

SPARE THE DYING
Necromancy Cantrip (Cleric, Druid)
Casting Time: Action Range: 15feet Components: V, S Duration: Instantaneous
Choose a creature within range that has O Hit Points and isn't dead. The creature becomes Stable.
Cantrip Upgrade. The range doubles when you reach levels 5 (30 feet), 11 (60 feet), and 17 (120 feet).


318	CHAPTER 7 I SPELLS
A HUMAN Di:tutO USES SPEAK
W,Tt,I ANIMALS TO CHAT WJTM
HIS eu, 8fiAq FqltND











































SPEAK WITH ANlMALS
Level I Divination (Bard, Druid, Range,; Warlock)
Casting Time:Action or Ritual
Range: Self Components: V, S Duration: 10 minutes
For the duration, you can comprehend and verbally communicate with Beasts, and you can use any of the lnAuence action's skill options with them.
Most Beasts have little to say about topics that don't pertain to survival or companionship, but at minimum, a Beast can give you information about nearby locations and monsters, including whatever it has perceived within the past day.

SPEAK WlTH DEAD
Level 3 Necromancy (Bard,Cleric, Wizard)
Casting Time: Action Range: 10 feet
Components: V, S, M (burning incense) Duration: 10 minutes
You grant the semblance of life to a corpse of your choice within range, allowing it to answer ques· tions you pose. The corpse must have a mouth, and this spell fails if the deceased creature was Undead when it died. The spell also fails if the corpse was the target of this spell within the past 10 days.
Until the spell ends, you can ask the co,·pse up to five questions. The corpse knows only what it knew in life, including the languages it knew. Answers are usually brief, cryptic, or repetitive, and the corpse is under no compulsion to offer a truthful answer if you are antagonistic toward it or it recognizes you as an enemy.This spell doesn't return the creature's soul to its body, only its animating spirit. Thus, the
corpse can't learn new information, doesn't compre-hend anything that has happened since it died, and can't speculate about future events.

SPEAK WITH PLANTS
Level3 Transmutation (Bard, Druid, Ranger)
Casting Time: Action Range: Self Components: V, S Duration: 10 minutes
You imbue plants in an immobile 30-foot Emana-tion with limited sentience and animation, giving them the ability to communicate with you and fol-low your simple commands. You can question plants about events in the spell's area within the past day. gaining information about creatures that have passed, weather, and other circumstances.
You can also turn Difficult Terrain caused by plant growth (such as thickets and undergrowth) into ordinary terrain that lasts for the duration. Or you can turn ordinary terrain where plants are present into Difficult Terrain that lasts for the duration.
The spell doesn't enable plants to uproot them-selves and move about, but they can move their branches, tendrils, and stalks for you.
If a Plant creature is in the area, you can commu-nicate with it as if you shared a common language.

SPID'Ell CLIMB
Level 2 'lransmutation (Sorcerer, Warlock, Wizard)
Casting Time: Action Range:Touch
Components: V, S, M (a drop of bitumen and a spider) Duration: Concentration, up to 1 hour
Until the spell ends, one willing creature you touch gains the ability to move up, down, and across vertical surfaces and along ceilings, while leaving its hands free. The target also gains a Climb Speed equal to its Speed.
Using a Higher•Level Spell Slot. You can target one additional creature for each spell slot level about 2.

SPIKE GROWTH
Level 2 Transmutation(Druid, Ranger)
Casting Time: Action Range: 150 feet
Components: V, S, M {seven thorns) Duration: Concentration, up to 10 minutes
The ground in a 20-foot•radius Sphere centered on a point within range sprouts hard spikes and thorns.The area becomes Difficult Terrain for the
duration. When a creature moves into or within the area, it takes 2d4 Piercing damage for every 5 feet it travels.
The transformation of the ground is camouflaged to look natural. Any creature that can't see the area when the spell is cast must take a Search action and succeed on a Wisdom (Perception or Survival) check against your spell save DC to recognize the terrain as hazardous before entering it.

SPIRIT GUARDIANS
Level 3 Conjuration (Cleric)
Casting Time: Action Range: Self
Components: V, S, M {a prayer scroll) Duration: Concentration, up to 10 minutes
Protective spirits flit around you in a IS-foot Ema-nation for the duration. If you are good or neutral, their spectral form appears angelic or fey (your choice). If you are evil, they appear fiendish.
When you cast this spell, you can designate crea-tures to be unaffected by it. Any other creature's Speed is halved in the Emanation, and whenever the Emanation enters a creature's space and whenever
a creature enters the Emanation or ends its turn there, the creature must make a Wisdom saving throw. On a failed save, the creature takes 3d8 Ra-diant damage (if you are good or neutral) or 3d8 Necrotic damage (if you are evil). On a successful save, the creature takes half as much damage. A creature makes this save only once per turn.
Usinga Higher-Level Spell Slot.The damage in-creases by ld8 for each spell slot level above 3.

SPIRITUAL WEAPON
Level 2 Evocation (Cleric)
Casting Time: Bonus Action Range: 60 feet Components: V, S
Duration: Concentration, up to 1 minute
You create a floating. spectral force that resembles a weapon of your choice and lasts for the duration.


CHAPTER 7 I SPELLS	3l9

































The force appears within range in a space of your choice, and you can immediately make one melee spell attack against one creature within 5 feet of the force. On a hit, the target takes Force damage equal to ld8 plus your spellcasting ability modifier.
As a Bonus Action on your later turns, you can move the force up to 20 feet and repeat the attack against a creature within 5 feet of it.
Using a Higher-Level Spell Slot. The damage in-creases by ld8 for every slot level above 2.

STAOOERING SMITE
Level 4 Enchantment (Paladin)
Casting Time: Bonus Action, which you take immedi-ately after hitting a creature with a Melee weapon or an Unarmed Strike
Range: Self Component: V Duration: Instantaneous
The target takes an extra 4d6 Psychic damage from the attack, and the target must succeed on a Wis-dom saving throw or have the Stunned condition until the end of your next turn.
Using a Higher-Level Spell Slot.The extra damage increases by ld6 for each spell slot level above 4.

STARRY WISP
Evocation Cantrip (Bard, Druid)
Casting Time: Action Range: 60 feet Components: V, S Duration: Instantaneous
You launch a mote of light at one creature or object within range. Make a ranged spell attack against the target. On a hit, the target takes ld8 Radiant
damage, and until the end of your next turn, it emits Dim Light in a 10-foot radius and can't benefit from the Invisible condition.
Cantrip Upgrade. The damage increases by ld8 when you reach levels 5 (2d8), II (3d8), and 17 (4d8).

STEEL WIND STRIKE
Level 5 Conjuration (Ranger, Wizard)
Casting Time: Action Range: 30 feet
Components: S, M (a Melee weapon worth 1+ SP) Duration: Instantaneous
You Aourish the weapon used in the castingand then vanish to strike like the wind. Choose up to five creatures you can see within range. Make a


320	CHAPTER 7 I SPELLS
melee spell attack against each target. On a hjt, a target takes 6d10 Force damage.
You then teleport to an unoccupied space you can see within S feet of one of the targets.


STINKING CLOUD
Level 3 Conjuration (Bard,Sorcerer, Wizard)
Casting Time: Action Range: 90 feet
Components: V, S, M (a rotten egg) Duration: Concentration, up to 1 minute
You create a 20-foot-radius Sphere of yellow, nau-seatinggas centered on a point within range. The cloud is Heavily Obscured. Tbe cloud lingers in the air for the duration or until a strong'"ind (such as the one created by Gust of Wind) disperses it.
Each creature that starts its turn in the Sphere must succeed on a Constitution saving throw or have the Poisoned condition until the end of the current turn. While Poisoned in this way. the crea-ture can't take an action or a Bonus Action.


STONE SHAPE
Level 4'Transmutation(Cleric, Druid, Wizard)
Casting Time: Action Range:Touch
Components: V, S, M (soft clay) Duration: Instantaneous
You touch a stone object of Medium size or smaller or a section of stone no more than 5 feet in any di-mension and form it into any shape you like. for ex-ample, you could shape a large rock into a weapon, statue, or coffer, or you could make a small passage through a wall that is 5 feet thick. You could also shape a stone door or its frame to seal the door shut Theobject you create can have up to two hinges and a latch, but finer mechanical detail isn't possible.


STONESKIN
Level 4 Transmutation (Druid. Ranger, Sorcerer. Wizard)
Casting Time: Action Range:Touch
Components: V, S, M (diamond dust worth 100+ GP, which the spell consumes)
Duration: Concentration, up to 1 hour
Until the spell ends, one willing creature you touch has Resistance to Bludgeoning, Piercing, and Slash-ing damage.


STORM OF VENGEANCE
Level 9 Conjuration (Druid)
Casting Time: Action Range: 1 mile Components: V, S
Duration: Concentration, up to 1 minute
Achurning storm cloud forms for the duration, centered on a point within range and spreading to a radius of 300 feet. Each creature under the cloud when it appears must succeed on a Constitution
saving throw or take 2d6 Thunder damage and have the Deafened conditfon for the duration.
At the start of each of your later turns, the storm produces different effects, as detailed below.
Turn 2. Acidic rain falls. Each creature and object under the cloud takes 4d6 Acid damage.
Turn 3. You call six bolts of lightning from the
cloud to strike six different creatures or objects beneath it. Each target makes a Dexterity saving throw, takingl0d6 Lightning damage on a failed save or half as much damage on a successful one.
Tum 4. Hailstones rain down. Each creature un-der the cloud takes 2d6 Bludgeoning damage.
Tums 5-10. Gusts and freezing rain assail the area under the cloud. Each creature there takes ld6 Cold damage. Until the spell ends, the area is Difficult Terrain and Heavily Obscured, ranged attacks with weapons are impossible there, and strong wind blows through the area.


SUGGESTION
Level 2 Enchantment (Bard, Sorcerer,Warlock,Wizard)
Casting Time: Action
Range: 30 feet
Components: V, M (a drop of honey) Duration: Concentration, up to 8 hours
You suggest a course of activity-described in no more than 25'"ords-to one creature you can see within range that can hear and understand you.The suggestion must sound achievable and not involve anything that would obviously deal damage to the target or it allies. F'or example, you could say, "Fetch the key to the cult's treasure vault. and give the key to me." Or you could say,"Stop fighting, leave this library peacefully. and don't return."
The target must succeed on a Wisdom saving throw or have the Charmed condition for the dura-tion or until you or your allies deal damage to the target. The Charmed target pursues the suggestion to the best of its abiHty. The suggested activity can continue for the entire duration, but if the sug-gested activity can be completed in a shorter time, the spell eods for the target upon completing it.
CHAPTER 7 l SPELLS	321



ABERRANT SPIRIT
Medium Aberration, Neutral
AC 11 + the spell's level
HP 40 + 10 for each spell level above 4
Speed 30 ft.; Fly 30 ft. (hover; Beholderkin only)
MOO SAVE	MOO 5.AVE
STR 16 +3 +3	Dex 10 +0  +0
INT 16 +3 +3	Wis 10 +0  +O
Immunities Psychic
MOO 5AV(
CON15 +2 +2
CHA 6  -2  -2






AHARANT SPIRIT (6EMOt.OliRION) 




SUMMON ABERRATION
Level 4 Conjuration (Warlock, Wizard)
Casting Time: Action Range: 90 feet
Components: V, S, M (a pickled tentacle and an eye-
ball in a platinum-inlaid vial worth 400+ GP)
Duration: Concentration, up to l hour
You call forth an aberrant spirit. It manifests in an unoccupied space that you can see within range and uses the Aberrant Spirit stat block. When you cast the spell, choose Beholderkin, Mind Flayer, or Slaad. The creature resembles a1\ Aberration of that kind, which determines certain details in its stat block.
The creature disappears when it drops to O Hit Points or when the spell ends,
The creature is an ally to you and your allies. In combat, it shares your Initiative count, but it takes its turn immediately after yours. It obeys your ver-bal commands (no action required by you). lfyou don't issue any, it takes the Dodge action and uses its movement to avoid danger.
Usinga Higher-Level Spell Slot. Use the spell slot's level for the spell's level in the stat block.


SUMMON BEAST
Level 2 Conjurntio11 (Druid, Ranger)
Casting Time: Action Range: 90 feet
Components: V, S, M (a feather, tuft offur, and fish tail inside a gilded acorn worth 200+ GP)
Duration: Concentration, up to l hour
You call forth a bestial spirit. It manifests in an unoccupied space that you can see within range and uses the Bestial Spirit stat block. When you cast the spell, choose an environment: Air, Land, or
Senses Darkvision 60 ft., Passive Perception 10 Languages Deep Speech, understands the languages
you know
CR None (XP O: PB equals your Proficiency Bonus)
TRAITS	
Regeneration (Slaad Only). The spirit regains 5 Hit Points at the start of its turn ifit has at least l Hit Point,
Whispering Aura (Mind Flayer Only). At the start of each of the spirit's turns, the spirit emits psionic energy ifit doesn't have the Incapacitated condition. Wisdom Saving Throw: DC equals your spell save DC, each crea-ture (other than you) within 5 feet of the spirit. Failure: 2d6 Psychic damage.
ACTIONS	
Multiatlack. The spirit makes a number of attacks equal to half this spell's level (round down).
Claw (Slaad Only). Melee Attack Roll: Bonus equals your spell attack modifier, reach 5 ft. Hit.: 1dl0 + 3 + the spell's level Slashing damage, and the target can't re-gain Hit Points until the start of the spirit's next turn.
Eye Ray (Beholderkin Only). Ranged Attack Roll: Bonus equals your spell attack modifier, range 150 ft. Hit: ld8
+ 3 + the spell's level Psychic damage.
Psychic Slam (Mind Flayer Only). Me/ee Attack Roll: Bonus equals your spell attack modifier, reach 5 ft. Hit: ld8 + 3 + the spell's level Psychic damage.

Water.The creature resembles an animal of your choice that is native to the chosen environment, which determines certain details in its stat block. The creature disappears when it drops to O Hit Points or when the spell ends.
The creature is an ally to you and your allies. In combat, the creature shares your Initiative count, but it takes its turn immediately after yours. It obeys your verbal commands (no action required by you). If you don't issue any, it takes the Dodge action and uses its movement to avoid danger.
Using a Higl,er-Level Spell Slot. Use the spell slot's level for the spell's level in the stat block.




322	CHAPTER 7 I SPELLS





SUMMON CELESTIAL
Level S Conjuration (Cleric, Paladin)
Casting Time: Action Range: 90 feet
Components: V, S, M (a reliquary worth 500+ GP) Duration: Concentration, up to 1 hour
You call forth a Celestial spirit. It manifests in an angelic form in an unoccupied space that you can sec within range and uses the Celestial Spirit stat block. When you cast the spell, choose Avenger or Defender. Your choice determines certain details in
its stat block. The creature disappears when it drops to O Hit Points or when the spell ends.
The creature is an ally to you and your allies. In combat, the creature shares your l_nitiative count, but it takes its turn immed.iately aA:er yours. It obeys your verbal commands (no action required by you). If you don't issue any. it takes the Dodge action and uses its movement to avoid danger.
Using a Higher-Level Spell Slot. Use the spell slot's
level for the spell's level in the stat block.

'-40D SAVE	MOO SA\IF	'JOO SAY[
only); Swim 30 ft. (Water only)		STR 16 +3 +3	DEX 14	+2  +2	CON 16	+3 +3
MOO SAV[	MOO SAVl	MOO SA\I[	INT 10  +O +O	Wis 14	+2 +2	CHA 16	+3 +3

Resistances Radiant
Immunities Charmed, Frightened
Senses Darkvision 60 ft., Passive Perception 12
LanguagesCelestial, understands the languages you know
CR None (XPO; PB equals your Proficiency Bonus)
 ACTIONS	
Multiattack. The spirit makes a number of attacks equal to half this spell's level (round down).
Radiant Bow (Avenger Only). Ranged Ateack Roll: Bonus equals your spell attack modifier, range 600 ft. Hit: 2d6
+ 2 + the spell's level Radiant damage.
Radiant Mace (Defender Only). Melee Attack Roll: Bo-nus equals your spell attack modifier, reach 5 ft. Hit: ldlO+ 3 + the spell's level Radiant damage, and the spirit can choose itself or another creature it can see within 10 feet of the target. The chosen creature gains ldlOTemporary Hit Points.
Healing Touch /1/Day). The spirit touches another crea-ture. The target regains Hit Points equal to 2d8 + the spell's level.
CHAPTER 7 I S-PELl.S	323













SUMMON CONSTRUCT
Level 4 Conjuration (Wizard)
Casting Time: Action
Range: 90 feet
Components: V, S, M (a lockbox worth 400+ GP) Duration: Concentration, up to 1 hour
You call forth the spirit of a Construct. It manifests in an unoccupied space that you can see within
range and uses the Construct Spirit stat block.






CONSTRUCT SPIRIT
Medium Construct, Neutral
AC13 + the spell's level
CONSTRUCT SPlc:tlT (StONlli)
When you cast thespell, choose a material: Clay. Metal, or Stone. The creature resembles an animate statue (you determine the appearance) made of the chosen material, which determines certain details in its stat block. The creature disappears when it drops to O Hit Points or when the spell ends.
The creature is an ally to you and your allies. ln combat, the creature shares your Initiative count, but it takes its turn immediately after yours. It
HP 40 + 15 for each spell level above 4 Speed 30 ft.
MOD SAW	YOO $AVE





Resistances Poison
Immunities Charmed, Exhaustion, Frightened, Paralyzed, Poisoned
Senses Darkvision 60 ft., Passive Perception 10



MOO SAY{
obeys your verbal commands (no action required by you). If you don't issue any, it takes the Dodge action and uses its movement to avoid danger.
Using a Higher-Level SpellSlot. Use the spell slot's level for the spell's level in the stat block.


SUMMON DRAGON
Level 5 Conjuration (Wizard)
Casting Time: Action Range: 60 feet
Components: V, S, M (an object with the image of a dragon engraved on it worth 500+ GP)
Duration: Concentration, up to 1 hour
You call forth a Dragon spirit. It manifests in an unoccupied space that you can see within range and uses the Draconic Spirit stat block. The creature disappears when it drops to O Hit Points or when the spell ends.
The creature is an ally to you and your allies. In combat, the creature shares your Initiative count, but it takes its turn immediately after yours. It obeys your verbal commands (no action required by you). If you don't issue any, it takes the Dodge action and uses its movement to avoid danger.
Using a Higher-Level Spell Slot. Use the spell slot's level for the spell's level in the stat block.
Languages Understands the languages you know
CR None (XP O; PB equals your Proficiency Bonus)
TRAITS	
Heated Body (Metal Only). A creature that hits the spirit with a melee attack or that starts its turn in a grapple with the spirit takes ldlO Fire damage.
Stony Lethargy(Stone Only). When a creature starts its turn within 10 feet of the spirit, the spirit can target it with magical energy if the spirit can see it. Wisdom Saving Throw: DC equals your spell save DC, the target. Failure: Until the start of its next turn, the target can't make Opportunity Attacks, and its Speed is halved.
 ACTIONS	
Multiattack. The spirit makes a number of Slam attacks equal to half this spell's level (round down).
Slam. Melee Attack Roll: Bonus equals your spell attack modifier, reach 5 ft. Hit: ld8 + 4 + the spell's level Blud-geoning damage.
 REACTIONS	
Berserk Lashing (Clay Only). Trigger: The spirit takes damage from a creature. Response: The spirit makes a Slam attack against that creature if possible, or the spirit moves up to half its Speed toward that creature without provoking Opportunity Attacks.


324	CHAPTER 7 I SPELLS
























DRACONIC SPIRIT
Large Dragon, Neutral
AC 14 + the spell's level
HP 50 + 10 for each spell level above 5 Speed 30 ft., Fly 60 ft., Swim 30 ft.






















0AAC.ONIC SPIA.JT
(COLO)
SUMMON ELEMENTAL
Level 4 Conjuration (Druid, Ranger, Wizard)
Casting Time: Action Range: 90 feet
Components: V, S, M (air, a pebble, ash, and water inside a gold-inlaid vial worth 400+ GP)
Duration: Concentration, up to 1 hour
You call forth an Elemental spirit. It manifests in an unoccupied space that you can see within range and uses the Elemental Spirit stat block. When you cast thespell, choose an element: Air, Earth. Fire, or Wa· ter. The creature resembles a bipedal form wreathed in the chosen element, which determines certain de-tails in its stat block.The creature disappears when it drops to O Hit Points or when the spell ends.
The creature isan ally to you and your allies. In combat. the creature shares your Initiative count, but it takes its turn immediately after yours. It obeys your verbal commands (no action required by you). If you don't issue any, it takes the Dodge action and uses its movement to avoid danger.
Usinga Higher0Level Spell Slot. Use the spell slot's
level for the spell's level in the stat block.
MOO SAV(
Sn  19 +4 +4
INT 10 +0 +0
MOD SAVE
DEX 14 +2 +2
WIS 14 +2 +2
MOO SA\'l
CON 17 +3 +3
CHA 14 +2 +2

Resistances Acid, Cold, Fire, Lightning, Poison Immunities Charmed, Frightened, Poisoned Senses Blindsight 30 ft., Darkvision 60 ft.,
Passive Perception 12
Languages Draconic, understands the languages you know
CR None (XP O; PB equals your Proficiency Bonus)
TRAITS	
Shared Resistances. When you summon the spirit, choose one of its Resistances. You have Resistance to the chosen damage type until the spell ends.
 ACTIONS	
Multiattack. The spirit makes a number of Rend at• tacks equal to half the spell's level (round down), and it uses Breath Weapon.
Rend. Melee Attack: Bonus equals your spell attack modifier, reach 10 feet. Hit: ld6 + 4 + the spell's level Piercing damage.
Breath Weapon. Dexterity Saving Throw: DC equals your spell save DC, each creature in a 30-foot Cone. Failure: 2d6 damage of a type this spirit has Resistance to (your choice when you cast the spell). Success: Half damage.
CHAPTER 7 I SPELLS	325
























SUMMON FEY
Level 3 Conjuration (Druid, Ranger, Warlock, Wizard)
Casting Time: Action
Range: 90 feet
FEY SPIRIT
Small Fey, Neutral
AC 12 + the spell's level
HP 30 + 10 for each spell level above 3 Speed 30 ft., Fly 30 ft.
Components: V, S, M (a gilded flower worth 300+ GP)
Duration: Concentration, up to 1 hour
You call forth a Feyspirit. It manifests in an unoc·
MOO SAVi
STR 13 +l	+l INT 14 +2 +2
MOO SAVE
DEX 16 +3 +3
WIS 11 +0 +0
MOD 'SAVI
CON 14 +2 +2
CHA 16 +3 +3
cupied space that you can see within range and uses the Fey Spirit stat block. When you cast thespell, choose a mood: Fuming, Mirthful, orTricksy. The creature resembles a Fey creature of your choice marked by the chosen mood, which determines cer· tain details in its stat block. The creature disappears when it drops to O Hit Points or when the spell ends.
The creature is an ally to you and your allies. In combat, the creature shares your Initiative count, but it takes its turn immediately after yours. It obeys your verbal commands (no action required by you). If you don't issue any, it takes the Dodge action and uses its movement to avoid danger.
Usinga Higher-Level Spell Slot. Use the spell slot's
level for the spell's level in the stat block.

SUMMON Furno
Level 6 Conjuration (Warlock,Wizard)
Casting Time: Action
Range: 90 feet
Components: V, S, M (a bloody vial worth 600+ GP) Duration: Concentration, up to 1 hour
You call forth a fiendish spirit. It manifests in an unoccupied space that you can see within range and uses the Fiendish Spirit stat block. When you cast thespell, choose Demon, Devil, or Yugoloth.
Immunities Charmed
Senses Darkvision 60 ft., Passive Perception 10 Languages Sylvan, understands the languages you
know
CR None (XP 0; PB equals your Proficiency Bonus)
ACTIONS	
Multiattack. The spirit makes a number of Fey Blade attacks equal to half this spell's level (round down).
Fey Blade. Melee Allack Roll: Bonus equals your spell attack modifier, reach 5 ft. Hit: 2d6 + 3 + the spell's level Force damage.
 BONUS ACTIONS	
Fey Step. The spirit magically teleports up to 30 feet to an unoccupied space it can see. Then one of the follow• ing effects occurs, based on the spirit's chosen mood:
Fuming. The spirit has Advantage on the next attack roll it makes before the end of this turn.
Mirthful. Wisdom Saving Throw: DC equals your spell save DC, one creature the spirit can see within 10 feet of itself. Failure: The target is Charmed by you and the spirit for 1 minute or until the target takes any damage.
Tricksy. The spirit fills a 10-foot Cube within 5 feet ofit with magical Darkness, which lasts until the end of its next turn.



326	CHAPTER 7 I SPELLS












The creature resembles a Fiend of the chosen type, which determines certain details in its stat block. The creature disappears when it drops to O Hit Points or when the spell ends.
The creature is an ally to you and your allies. In combat, the crea-ture shares your Initiative count, but it takes its turn immediately afler yours. It obeys your verbal commands (no action required by you). lf you don't issue any, it takes the Dodge action and uses its move-ment to avoid danger.
Using a Higher-Level Spell Slot. Use
the spell slot's level for the spell's level i the stat block.

FIENDISH SPIRIT
Large Fiend, Neutral
AC 12 + the spell's level
HP 50 (Demon only) or 40 (Devil only) or 60 (Yugoloth only) + 15 for each spell level above 6
Speed 40 ft.; Climb 40 ft. (Demon only); Fly 60 ft.
(Devil only)



Devil's Sight (Devil Only). Magical Darkness doesn't impede the spirit's Darkvision.
Magi, Resistance. The spirit has Advantage on saving throws against spells and other magical effects.
MOO SAVE	MOD SAV(






Immunities Poison; Poisoned
Senses Darkvision 60 ft., Passive Perception 10 Languages Abyssal, Infernal, Telepathy 60 ft.
MOO j./\Vl
ACTIONS	
Multiatta,k. The spirit makes a number of attacks equal to half this spell's level (round down).
Bite (Demon Only). Melee Altack Roll: Bonus equals your spell attack modifier, reach 5 ft. Hit: ld12 + 3 + the spell's level Necrotic damage.
CR None (XPO; PB equals your Proficiency Bonus}
TRAITS	
Death Throes (Demon Only). When the spirit drops to 0 Hit Points or the spell ends, the spirit explodes. Dex-terity Saving Throw: DC equals your spell save DC, each creature in a 10-foot Emanation originating from the spirit. Failure: 2d10 plus this spell's level Fire damage. Success: Half damage.


Claws (Yugo/0th Only). Melee Attack Roll: Bonus equals
your spell attack modifier, reach 5 ft. Hit: ld8 + 3 + the spell's level Slashing damage. Immediately after the at• tack hits or misses, the spirit can teleport up to 30 feet to an unoccupied space it can see.
Fiery Strike (Devil Only). Melee or Ranged Attack Roll: Bonus equals your spell attack modifier, reach 5 ft. or range 150 ft. Hit: 2d6 + 3 + the spell's level Fire damage.
CriAPTER 7 I SPELLS	327






SUMMON UNDEAD
Level3 Necromancy (Warlock, Wizard)
Casting Time: Action
Range: 90 feet
Components: V, S, M (a gilded skull worth 300+ GP) Duration: Concentration, up to l hour
You call forth an Undead spirit. It manifests in an unoccupied space that you can see within range and uses the Undead Spirit stat block. When you cast the spell, choose the creature's form: Ghostly, Putrid, or Skeletal. The spirit resembles an Undead creature with the chosen form, which determines certain details in its stat block. The creature dis-appears when it drops to O Hit Points or when the spell ends.
The creature is an ally to you and your allies. In combat, the creature shares your Initiative count, but it takes its turn immediately aA:er yours. It obeys your verbal commands (no action required by you). lf you don't issue any, it takes the Dodge action and uses its movement to avoid danger.
Usinga Higher-Level Spell Slot. Use the spell slot's
level for the spell's level in the stat block.





































UNOEAO 5PIR1f (G?OSTLV)

UNDEAD SPIRIT
Medium Undead, Neutral
AC 11 + the spell's level
HP 30 (Ghostly and Putrid only) or 20 (Skeletal only)+ l O for each spell level above 3
Speed 30 ft.; Fly 40 ft. (hover; Ghostly only)



were Difficult Terrain. If it ends its turn inside an object, it is shunted to the nearest unoccupied space and takes ldlO Force damage for every 5 feet traveled.
MOO SAVE	MOO S-'VE
Sn	12 +1 +1	DEX 16 +3 +3
INT 4 -3	-3	Wis 10 +0 +0
MOO s.AVC
CON15 +2 +2
CHA 9 -1	-1
 ACTIONS	
Multiattack. The spirit makes a number of attacks equal to half this spell"s level (round down).
Immunities Necrotic, Poison; Exhaustion, Frightened, Paralyzed, Poisoned
Senses Darkvision 60 ft., Passive Perception 10 Languages Understands the languages you know CR None (XP O; PB equals your Proficiency Bonus)
 TRAITS	
Festering Aura (Putrid Only). Constitution Saving Throw: DC equals your spell save DC, any creature (other than you) that starts its turn within a 5-foot Emanation origi-nating from the spirit. Failure: The creature has the Poi-soned condition until the start of its next turn.
Incorporeal Passage (Ghostly Only). The spirit can move through other creatures and objects as if they
Deathly Touch (Ghostly Only). Melee Allack Roll: Bo-nus equals your spell attack modifier, reach 5 ft. Hit: ld8 + 3 + the spell's level Necrotic damage, and the target has the Frightened condition until the end of its next turn.
Crave Bolt (Skeletal Only). Ranged Altack Roll: Bonus equals your spell attack modifier, range 150 ft. Hil: 2d4
+ 3 + the spell's level Necrotic damage.
Rotting Claw (Putrid Only). Melee Attack Roll: Bonus equals your spell attack modifier, reach S ft. Hit: ld6 + 3 + the spell's level Slashing damage. If the target has the Poisoned condition, it has the Paralyzed condition until the end of its next turn.

328	CHAPTER 7 I SPELLS
SUNBEAM
Level 6 Evocation (Cleric, Druid, Sorcerer,Wizard)
Casting Time: Action Range: Self
Components: V, S, M (a magnifying glass) Duration: Concentration, up to l minute
You launch a sunbeam i.n a 5-foot·wide. 60-foot-long Line. Each creature in the Line makes a Constitu· tion saving throw. On a failed save, a creature takes 6d8 Radiant damage and has the Blinded condition until the start of your next turn. On a successful save, it takes half as much damage only.
Until the spell ends, you can take a Magic action to create a new Line of radiance.
For the duration,a mote of brilliant radiance shines above you. It sheds Bright Light in a 30-foot radius and Dim Light for an additional 30 feet. This light is sunljght.


SUNBURST
Level 8 Evocation (Cleric, Druid,Sorcerer,Wizard)
Casting Time: Action
Range: l SO feet
Components: V, S, M (a piece of sunstone) Duration: Instantaneous
Brilliant sunlight flashes in a 60-foot-radius Sphere centered on a point you choose within range. Each creature in the Sphere makes a Constitution saving throw. On a failed save, a creature takes l2d6 Ra· diant damage and has the Blinded condition for I minute. On a successfulsave, it takes half as much damage only.
A creature Blinded by thisspell makes another Constitution saving throw at the end of each of its turns, ending the effect on itself on a success.
This spell dispels Darkness in its area that was created byany spell.


SWIFT QUIVER
Level 5 Transmutation (Ranger)
Casting Time: Bonus Action
Range: Self
Components: V, S, M (a Quiver worth l+ GP) Duration: Concentration, up to l minute
When you cast the spell and as a Bonus Action until it ends, you can make two attacks with a weapon that fires Arrows or Bolts, such as a Longbow or
a Light Crossbow. The spell magically creates the ammunition needed for each attack. Each Arrow or Bolt created by the spell deals damage like a non-magical piece of ammunition of its kind and disinte· grates immediately after it hits or misses.
SYMBOL
Level 7 Abjuration (Bard,Cleric, Druid,Wiz?rd)
Casting Time: 1 minute Range:Touch
Components: V, S, M (powdered diamond worth
1,000+ GP, which the spell consumes) Duration: Until dispelled or triggered
You inscribe a harmfulglyph either on a surface (such as a section of floor or"'all) or within an object that can be closed (such as a book or chest). The glyph can cover an area no larger than 10 feet in diameter. lfyou choose an object, it must remain in place; if it is moved more than 10 feet from where you cast this spell, the glyph is broken, and the spell ends without being triggered.
The glyph is nearly imperceptible and requires a successful Wisdom (Perception) check against your spell save DC to notice.
When you inscribe the glyph. you set its trigger and choose which effect the symbol bears: Death, Discord, Fear, Pain, Sleep, or Stunning. Each one is explained below.
Set the'lrigger. You decide what triggers the glyph when you cast the spell. For glyphs inscribed on a surface, common triggers include touching or step-pingon the glyph, removing another object cover· ing it, or approaching within a certain distance of it. For glyphs inscribed within an object, common trig-gers include opening that object or seeing the glyph.
You can reline the trigger so that only creatures of certain types activate it (for example, the glyph could be set to affect Aberrations). You can also set conditions for creatures that don't trigger the glyph, such as those who say acertain password.
Once triggered, the glyph glows, filling a
60-foot·radius Sphere with Dim Light for IO min-utes, after ,vhich time the spell ends. Each creature in the Sphere ,vhen the glyph activates is targeted by its effect, as is a creature that enters the Sphere for the first time on a turn or ends its turn there. A creature is targeted only once per turn.
Death. Each target makes a Constitution saving throw, taking lOdl0 Necrotic damage on a failed save or half as much damage on a successful save.
Discord. Each target makes a Wisdom saving throw. On a failed save, a target argues with other creatures for I minute. During this time, it is inca-pable of meaningful communication and has Disad-vantage on attack rolls and ability checks.
Fear. Each target must succeed on a Wisdom saving throw or have the Frightened condition for I minute. While Frightened, the target must move at least 30 feet away from the glyph on each of its turns, if able.
CHAPTER 7 I SPELLS	329
Pain. Each target must succeed on a Constitution saving throw or have the Incapacitated condition for I minute.
Sleep. Each target must succeed on a Wisdom sav•
ing throw or have the Unconscious condition for 10 minutes. A creature awakens if it takes damage or if someone takesan action to shake it awake.
Stunning. Each target must succeed on a Wisdom saving throw or have the Stunned condition for I minute.

SYNAPTIC STATIC
Level 5 Enchantment (Bard. Sorcerer,Warlock, Wizard)
Casting Time: Action Range: 120 feet Components: V, S Duration: Instantaneous
You cause psychic energy to erupt at a point within range. Each creature in a 20-foot·radius Sphere centered on that point makes an Intelligence saving throw, taking 8d6 Psychic damage on a failed save or half as much damage on a successful one.
On a failed save, a target also has muddled thoughts for I minute. During that time, it subtracts ld6 from all its attack rolls and abilitychecks, as well as any Constitution saving throws to maintai,n Concentration. The target makes an Intelligence saving throw at the end of each of its turns, ending the effect on itself on a success.

TASHA'S BUBBLING CAULDRON
Level 6 Conjuration (Warlock, Wizard)
Casting Time: Action Range: S feet
Component: V, S, M (a gilded ladle worth 500+ GP)
Duration: 10 minutes
You conjure a claw-footed cauldron filled with bub-bling liquid. The cauldron appears in an unoccupied space on the ground within 5 feet of you and lasts for the duration. The cauldron can't be moved and disappears when the spell ends, along with the bub-bling liquid inside it.
The liquid in the cauldron dupJicates the prop-erties of a Common or an Uncommon potion of your choice (such as a Potion of Healing). As a Bonus Action, you or a,n ally can reach into the cauldron and withdraw one potion of that kind.The potion is contained in a vial that disappears when the potion is consumed. The cauldron can produce a number of these potions equal to your spellcasting ability modifier (minimum I). When the last of these po-tions is withdrawn from the cauldron, the cauldron disappears, and the spell ends.
Potions obtained From the cauldron that aren't consumed disappear when you cast thisspell again.

TASHA'S HIDEOUS LAUGHTER
Level 1 Enchantment (Bard, Warlock,Wizard)
Casting Time: Action
Range: 30 feet
Components: V, S, M (a tart and a feather) Duration: Concentration, up to 1 minute
One creature of your choice that you can see within range makes a Wisdom saving throw. On a failed save, it has the Prone and Incapacitated conditions for the duration. During that time, it laughs uncon-trollably if it's capable of laughter, and it can't end the Prone condition on itself.
At the end of each of its turns and each time it takes damage, it makes another Wisdom saving throw. The target has Advantage on the save if the save is triggered by damage. On a successful save, the spell ends.
Using a Higher-Level Spell Slot. You can target one additional creature for each spell slot level about I.

TELEKINESIS
Level 5 Transmutation (Sorcerer,Wizard)
Casting Time: Action Range: 60 feet Components: V, S
Duration: Concentration, up to 10 minutes
You gain the ability to move or manipulate crea•
tu res or objects by thought. When you cast the spell and as a Magic action on your later turns before the spell ends, you can exert your will on one creature or object that you can see within range, causing the appropriate effect below. You can affect the same target round after round or choose a new one at any time. If you switch targets, the prior target is no longer affected by the spell.
Creature. You can try to move a Huge 01·smaller creature. The target must succeed on a Strength saving throw, or you move it up to 30 feet in any direction within the spell's range. Until the end of your next turn, the creature has the Restrained con-dition, and if you lift it into the air, it is suspended there. It falls at the end of your next turn unless you use this option on it again and it fails the save.
Object. You can try to move a Huge or smaller object. If the object isn"t being worn or carried, you automatically move it up to 30 feet in any direction
opening a door or a container, stowing or retrieving an item from an open container, or pouring the con-tents from a vial.

TELEPATHY
Level 8 Divi11ation {Wizard)
Casting Time: Action Range: Unlimited
Components: V. S, M (a pair oflinked silver rings) Duration: 24 hours
You create a telepathic link between yourself and a willing creature ·with which you are familiar. The creature can beanywhere on the same plane of ex· istence as you. The spell ends if you or the target are no longer on the same plane.
Until the spell ends, you and the target can in-stantly share words, images, sounds, and other sensory messages with each other through the link, and the target recognizes you as the creature it is communicating with. The spell enables a creature to understand the meaning of your words and any sensory messages you send to it.

TELEPORT
Level 7 Conjuration (Bard, Sorcere,; Wizard)
Casting Time: Action Range: 10 feet Components: V Duration: Instantaneous
This spell instantly transports you and up to eight willing creatures that you can see within range, or a single object that you can see within range. to a des-tination you select. If you target an object, it must be Large or smaller, and it can't be held or carried byan unwilling creature.
The destination you choose must be known to you. and it must be on the same plane of existence as you. Your familiarity with the destination deter· mines whether you arrive there successfully. The DM rolls JdlOO and consults the Teleportation Out-come table and the explanations after it.

TELEP0RTATI0N OUTCOME
Similar		Off	On Familiarity	Mishap	Area	Target Target
Permanent circle	01-00
within the spell's range.
If the object is worn or carried by a creature, that creature must succeed on a Strength saving throw.
Linked object Very familiar
01-00
01-05	06-13 14-24  25-00


telekinetic grip, such as manipulating a simple tool,
False destination
01-50	51-00
CHAPTER 7 I SPELLS	331
Familiarity. Here are the meanings of the terms in the table's Familiarity column:
    • "Permanent circle" means a permanent teleporta-tion circle whose sigil sequence you know.
    • "Linked object" means you possess an object taken from the desired destination within the last six months, such as a book from a wizard's library.
    • "Very familiar" is a place you have visited often, a place you have carefully studied, or a place you can see when you cast the spell.
    • "Seen casually" is a place you have seen more than once but with which you aren't very familiar.
    • "Viewed once or described" is a place you have seen once, possibly using magic, or a place you know through someone else's description, perhaps from a map.
    • "False destination" is a place that doesn't exist. Perhaps you tried toscry an enemy's sanctum but instead viewed an illusion, or you are attempting to teleport to a location that no longer exists.
Mishap. The spelt's unpredictable magic results in a difficult journey. Each teleporting creature (or the target object) takes 3dl0 Force damage, and the OM rerolls on the table to see where you wind up (multi-ple mishaps can occur, dealing damage each time).
Similar Area. You and your group (or the target object) appear in a different area that's visually or thematically similar to the target area. You appear in the closest similar place. If you are heading for your home laborato,·y, for example, you might ap· pear in another person's laboratory in the same city.
Off Target. You and your group (or the target ob-ject) appear 2dl2 miles away from the destination in a random direction. Roll ld8 for the direction: I, east; 2, southeast: 3,south: 4, southwest: S. west: 6.
northwest; 7, north; or 8, northeast.
On Target. You and your group (or the target ob-ject) appear where you intended.

TELEPORTATION CIRCLE
Level 5 Conjuration (Bard, Sorcerer, Warlock, Wizard)
Casting Time: 1 minute
Range: 10 feet
Components: V, M (rare inks worth 50+ GP, which the spell consumes)
Duration: 1 round
As you cast the spelt, you draw a 5-foot-radius circle on the ground inscribed with sigils that link your location to a permanent teleportation circle of your choice whose sigil sequence you know and that is
on the same plane of existence as you. Ashimmer-ing portal opens within the circle you drew and remains open until the end or your next turn. Any creature that enters the portal instantly appears within S feet of the destination circle or in the near• est unoccupied space if that space is occupied.
Many major temples. guildhalls, and other im· portant places have permanent teleportation cir-cles. Each circle includes a unique sigil sequence-a string of runes arranged in a particular pattern.
When you first gain the ability to cast this spell, you learn the sigil sequences for two destinations on the Material Plane, determined by the OM. You might learn additionalsigil sequences during your adventures. You can commit a new sigil sequence to memory after studying it for 1 minute.
You can create a permanent teleportation circle by casting this spell in the same location every day for 365 days.

TENSER'S FLOATING DISK
Level I Conjuration (Wizard)
Casting Time: Action or Ritual
Range: 30 feet
Components: V, S, M (a drop of mercury) Duration: 1 hour
Thisspell creates a circular, horizontal plane of force, 3 feet in diameter and I inch thick, that floats 3 feet above the ground in an unoccupied space
of your choice that you can see within range. The disk remains for the duration and can hold up to 500 pounds. Ir more weight is placed on it, the spell ends, and everything on the disk falls to the ground.
The disk is immobile while you are within 20 feet ofit. If you move more than 20 feet away from it, the disk follows you so that it remains within 20 feet of you. It can move across uneven terrain, up or down stairs, slopes and the like. but it can't cross an elevation change of10 feet or more. For exam-ple, the disk can't move across a 10-foot-deep pit, nor could it leave such a pit if it was created at the bottom.
If you move more than 100 feet from the djsk (typically because it can't move around an obstacle to follow you), the spell ends.







33?	CHAPTER 7 I SPELLS
































ThAUMATURGY
Transmutation Cantrip (Cleric)
Casting Time: Action Range: 30 feet Components: V Duration: Up to 1 minute
You manifest a minor wonder within range. You create one of the effects below within range. If you cast this spell multiple times, you can have up to three of its I-minute effects active at a time.
Altered Eyes. You alter the appearance of your eyes for I minute.
Booming Voice. Your voice booms up to three times as loud as normal for I minute. F'or the dura-tion, you have Advantage on Charisma (Intimida-tion) checks.
F'ire Play. You cause flames to flicker, brighten, dim, or change color for 1 minute.
Invisible Hand. You instantaneously cause an un-locked door or window to fly open or slam shut.
Phantom Sound. You create an instantaneous sound that originates from a point of your choice within range, such as a rumble of thunder, the cry of a raven, or ominous whispers.
TI-emors. You cause harmless tremors in the ground for l minute.
THORN WHIP
Transmutation CAintrip (Druid)
Casting Time: Action
Range: 30 feet
Components: V, S, M (the stem of a thorny plant) Duration: Instantaneous
You create a vine-like 1vbip covered in thorns that lashes out at your command toward a creature in range. Make a melee spell attack against the target. On a hit, the target takes ld6 Piercing damage, and if it is Large or smaller, you can pull it up to 10 feet closer to you.
Cantrip Upgrade. The damage increases by ld6 when you reach levels 5 (2d6), 1l (3d6}, and 17 (4d6).


THUNDERCLAP
Evocation Cantl'ip (Bard, Druid, Sorcere,; Warlock, Wizard)
Casting Time: Action Range: Self Components: S Duration: Instantaneous
Each creature in a 5-foot Emanation originating from you must succeed on a Constitution saving throw or take ld6 Thunder damage. The spell's thunderous sound can be heard up to 100 feet away.
Cantrip Upgrade. The damage increases by Jd6 when you reach levels 5 (2d6), II (3d6), and 17 (4d6).
CHAPTER 7 1 SPELLS	333
THUNDEROUS SMITE
Level I Evocation (Paladin)
Casting Time: Bonus Action, which you take immedi-ately after hitting a target with a Melee weapon or an Unarmed Strike
Range: Self Component: V
Duration: Instantaneous
Your strike rings with thunder that is audible within 300 feet of you, and the target takes an ex• tra 2d6 Thunder damage from the attack. Addition-ally, if the target is a creature. it must succeed on a Strength saving throw or be pushed 10 feet away from you and have the Prone condition.
Using a Higher-Level Spell Slot.The damage in· creases by ld6 for each spell slot level above 1.

TuUNDERWAVE
Level I Evocation (Bard, Druid. Sorcerer, Wizard)
Casting Time: Action Range: Self Components: V, S Duration: Instantaneous
You unleash a wave of thunderous energy. Each creature in a 15-foot Cube originating from you makes a Constitution saving thro,v. On a failed save, a creature takes 2d8 Thunder damage and is pushed 10 feet away from you. On a successful save, a crea-ture takes half as much damage only.
In addition, unsecured objects that are entirely within the Cube are pushed 10 feet away from you, and a thunderous boom is audible within 300 feet.
Usinga Higher-Level Spell Slot.The damage in· creases by ld8 for each spell slot level above I.

TIME STOP
Level 9 Tr·ansmutation(Sorcerer, Wizard)
Casting Time: Action Range:Self Components: V Dural.ion: Instantaneous
You briefly stop the flow of time for everyone but yourself. No time passes for other creatures, while you take ld4 + 1 turns in a row, during which you can useactions and move as normal.
This spell ends if one of the actions you use during this period, or any effects that you create during it, affects a creature other than you or an object be-ing worn or carried by someone other than you. In addition, the spell ends if you move to a f?lace more than 1,000 feet from the location ,vhere you cast it.









TOLL THE DEAD
Necromancy Cantrip(Cleric,Warlock,Wizard)
Casting Time: Action Range: 60 feet Components: V, S Duration: Instantaneous
You point at one creature you can see within range, and the single chime of a dolorous bell is audible within 10 feet of the target. The target must succeed on a Wisdom saving throw or take ld8 Necrotic damage. If the target is missing any of its Hit Points, it instead takes1dl2 Necrotic damage.
Cantrip Upgrade. The damage increases by one die when you reach levels 5 (2d8 or 2dI2), 11 (3d8 or 3d12). and 17 (4d8 or 4d12).

TONGUES
Level 3 Divination (Bard, Cleric,Sorcerer, Warlock, Wizard)
Casting Time: Action Range: Touch
Components: V, M (a miniature ziggurat) Duration: 1 hour
This spell grants the creature you touch the ability to understand any spoken or signed language that it hears or sees. Moreover, when the target commu· nicates by speaking or signing, any creature that knows at least one language can understand it if that creature can hear the speech or see the signing.

TRANSPORT VIA PLANTS
Level 6 Conjurat'ion (Druid)
Casting Time: Action Range: 10 feet Components: V, S Duration: 1 minute
Thisspell creates a magical link between a Large or larger inanimate plant within range and another plant, at anydistance, on the same plane of exis· tence. You must have seen or touched the destina·
tion plant at least once before. For the duration, any creature can step into the target plant and exit from the destination plant by using 5 feet of movement.

334	CtiAPTŁR 7 I SPELLS
























Level S Conjuration (Druid, Ranger)
Casting Time: Action Range: Self Components: V, S
Duration: Concentration, up to 1 minute
You gain the ability to enter a tree and move from inside it to inside another tree of the same kind within 500 feet. Both trees must be living and at least the same size as you. You must use 5 feet of movement to enter a tree. You instantly know the location of all other trees of the same kind within 500 feet and, as part of the move used to enter the tree, can either pass into one of those trees or step out of the tree you're in. You appear in a spot of your choice within 5 feet of the destination tree, using another 5 feet of movement. If you have no movement left, you appear within 5 feet of the tree you entered.
You can use this transportation ability only once on each of your turns. You must end each turn out-side a tree.

TRUE POLYMORPH
Level 9 Transmutation (Bard,Warlock,Wizard)
Casting Time: Action Range: 30 feet
Components: V, S, M (a drop of mercury, a dollop of gum arabic, and a wisp of smoke)
Duration: Concentration, up to 1 hour
Choose one creature or nonmagical object that you can see within range.The creature shape-shifts into a different creature or a nonmagical object, or the object shape-shifts into a creature (the object must be neither worn nor carried). The transformation lasts for the duration or until the target dies or is
dispelled.
An unwilling creature can make a Wisdom sav-ing throw, and if it succeeds, it isn't affected by this spell.
Creature into Creature. If you turn a creature into another kind of creature, the new form can be any kind you choose that has a Challenge Rating equal to or less than the target's Challenge Rating or level. The target's game statistics are replaced by the stat block of the new form, but it retains its Hit Points, Hit Point Dice, alignment, and personality.
The target gainsa number of Temporary Hit Points equal to the Hit Points of the new form.The spell ends early on the target if it has no Temporary Hit Points left.
The target is limited in the actions it can perform by the anatomy of its new form, and it can't speak or cast spells.
The target's gear melds into the new form. The creature can't use or otherwise benefit from any of that equipment.
Object into Creature. You can turn an object into any kind of creature, as long as the creature's size is no larger than the object's size and the creature has a Challenge Ratingof9 or lower. The creature
is Friendly to you and your allies. In combat, it takes its turns immediately after yours, and it obeys your commands.
If the spell lasts more than an hour, you no longer control the creature. It might remain Friendly to you, depending on how you have treated it.
Creature intoObject. If you turn a creature into an object, it transforms along with whatever it is wear-ing and carrying into that form, as long as the ob-ject's size is no larger than the creature's size. The creature's statistics become those of the object, and the creature has no memory of time spent in this form after the spell ends and it returns to normal.
CHAPTER 7 I SPELLS	335
ThUE RESURRECTION
Level 9 Necromancy (Cleric, Druid)
Casting Time: 1 hour
Range: Touch
Components: V, S, M (diamonds worth 25,000+ GP, which the spell consumes)
Duration: Instantaneous
You touch a creature that has been dead for no longer than 200 years and that died for any reason except old age. The creature is revived with all its
I-lit Points.
This spell closes all wounds, neutralizes any poison, cures all magical contagions, and lilTs any curses affecting the creature when it died.The spell replaces damaged or missing organs and limbs.
If the creature was Undead, it is restored to its non·Undead form.
The spell can provide a new body if the original no longer exists, in which case you must speak the creature's name. The creature then appears in an unoccupied space you choose within 10 feet of you.

TRUE SEEING
Level 6 Divination (Bard, Cleric, Sorcerer,Warlock, Wizar·d)
Casting Time: Action
Range: Touch
Components: V, S, M (mushroom powder worth 25+ GP, which the spell consumes)
Duration: 1 hour
For the duration, the willing creature you touch has Truesight with a range of120 feet.


ThUE STRIKE
Divination Cantrip (Bard, Sorcerer, Warlock, Wizard)
Casting Time: Action
Range: Self
Components: S, M (a weapon with which you have proficiency and that is worth l+ CP)
Duration: Instantaneous
Guided by a flash of magical insight. you make one attack with the weapon used in the spell's casting. The attack uses your spellcasting ability for the at· tack and damage rolls instead of using Strength or Dexterity. If the attack deals damage, it can be Ra-diant damage or the weapon's normal damage type (your choice).
CantripUpp-ade. Whether you deal Radiant dam· age or the weapon's normal damage type, the attack deals extra Radiant damage when you reach levels 5 (ld6), 11 (2d6), and 17 (3d6).
TSUNAMI
Level 8 Conjuration (Druid)
Casting Time: 1 minute Range: l mile Components: V, S
Duration: Concentration. up to 6 rounds
A wall of water springs into existence at a point you choose within range. You can make the wall up to 300 feet long, 300 feet high. and 50 feet thick. The wall lasts for the duration.
When the wall appears, each creature in its area makes a Strength saving throw. taking 6dl0 Blud-geoning damage on a failed save or half as much damage on a successful one.
At the start of each of your turns after the wall appears, the wall, along with any creatures in it, moves 50 feet away from you. Any Huge or smaller creature inside the wall or whose space the wall enters when it moves must succeed on a Strength saving throw or take Sdl0 Bludgeoning damage. A creature can take this damage only once per round. At the end of the turn, the wall's height is reduced by 50 feet. and the damage the wall deals on later rounds is reduced by Jdl0. When the wall reaches 0 feet in height, the spell ends.
A creature caught in the wall can move byswim· ming. Because of the wave's force, though. the crea· ture must succeed on a Strength (Athletics) check against your spell save DC to move at all.!fit fails the check, it can't move. A creature that moves out of the wall falls to the ground.

UNSEEN SERVANT
Level I Conjuration (Bard,Warlock,Wizard)
Casting Time: Action or Ritual
Range: 60 feet
Components: V, S, M (a bit of string and of wood) Duration: 1 hour
This spell creates an Invisible, mindless. shapeless, Medium force that performs simple tasksat your command until the spell ends. The servant springs into existence in an unoccupied space on the ground within range. It has AC 10, I Hit Point, and a Strength of 2, and it can't attack. If it drops to O Hit Points, the spell ends.
Once on each of your turns as a Bonus Action, you can mentally command the servant to move up to 15 feet and interact with an object. The servant can perform simple tasks that a human could do. such as fetching tbiogs, cleaning, mending, folding clothes, lighting fires, serving food, and pouring



336	CHAPTER 7 I SPELLS
































drinks. Once you give the command, the servant performs the task to the best of its ability until
it completes the task. then waits for your next command.
If you command the servant to perform a task that would move it more than 60 feet away from you, the spell ends.

VAMPIRIC TOUCH
Level 3 Necromancy (Sorcerer, Warlock, Wizard)
Casting Time: Action Range: Self Components: V, S
Duration: Concentration, up to 1 minute
The touch of your shadow-wreathed hand cansi· phon life force from others to heal your wounds. Make a melee spell attack against one creature within reach. On a hit, the target takes 3d6 Necrotic damage, and you regain Hit Points equal to half the amount of Necrotic damage dealt.
Until the spell ends, you can make the attack again on each of your turns as a Magic action, tar• geting the same creature or a different one.
Using a Higher-Level Spell Slot. The damage in· creases by ld6 for each spell slot level above 3.

VICIOUS MOCKERY
Enchantment Cantrip(Bard)
Casting Time: Action Range: 60 feet Components: V Duration: Instantaneous
You unleash a string of insults laced with subtle enchantments at one creature you can see or hear within range.The target must succeed on a Wisdom saving throw or take td6 Psychic damage and have Disadvantage on the next attack roll it makes before the end of its next turn.
Cantrip Upgrade. The damage increases by td6 when you reach levels 5 (2d6), 11 (3d6), and 17 (4d6).

VtTRIOLIC SPHERE
Level 4 Evocation (Sorcerer, Wizard)
Casting Time: Action
Range: l SO feet
Components: V, S, M (a drop of bile) Duration: Instantaneous
You point at a location within range, and a glow-ing.I-foot-diameter ball of acid streaks there and
CHAPTER 7 J SPELLS	337




























explodes in a 20-foot·radius Sphere. Each creature in that area makes a Dexterity saving throw. On a failed save., a creature takes 10d4 Acid damage and another 5d4 Acid damage at the end of its next turn. On a successful save, a creature takes half the initial damage only.
Usinga Higher-Level Spell Slot. The initial damage increases by 2d4 for each spell slot level above 4.

WALL OF fIRE
Level 4 Evocation (Druid,Sorcerer, Wizard)
Casting Time: Action
Range: 120 feet
Components: V, S, M (a piece of charcoal) Duration: Concentration, up to 1 minute
You create a wall of fire on a solid surface within range. You can make the wall up to 60 feet long, 20 feet high, and I foot thick, or a ringed wall up to 20 feet in diameter, 20 feet high, and I foot thick. The wall is opaque and lasts for the duration.
When the wall appears, each creature in its area makes a Dexterity saving thro,v, taking 5d8 Fire damage on a failed save or half as much damage on a successful one.
One side of the wall,selected by you when you cast this spelJ. deals 5d8 Fire damage to each crea· ture that ends its turn within 10 feet of that side or inside the wall. A creature takes the same damage when it enters the wall for the first time on a turn




























or ends its turn there. The other side of the wall deals no damage.
Usinga Higher-Level SpellSlot. The damage in·
creases by ld8 for each spell slot level above 4.


WALL OF FORCE
Level S Evocation (Wizard) Casting Time: Action Range: 120 feet
Components: V, S, M {a shard of glass)
Duration: Concentration, up to 10 minutes
An Invisible wall of force springs into existence al' a point you choose within range.The wall appears in any orientation you choose, as a horizontal or vertical barrier or at an angle. It can be free noating or resting on a solid surface. You can form it into a hemispherical dome or a globe with a radius of up to 10 feet, or you can shape a flat surface made up often 10-foot·by-l0·foot panels. Each panel must be contiguous with another panel. In any form, the wall is 1/4 inch thick and lasts for the duration. If the wall cuts through a creature's space when it ap-pears. the creature is pushed to one side of the wall (you choose which side).
Nothing can physically pass through the wall. It is immune to all damage and can't be dispelled by Dispel Magic. A Disintegrate spell destroys the wall instantly, however. The wall also extends into the Ethereal Plane and blocks ethereal travel through the wall.

338	CHAPTER 7 I SPELLS

WALL OF ICE
Level 6 Evocation (Wizard)
Casting Time: Action
Range: 120 feet
Components: V, S, M (a piece of quartz) Duration: Concentration, up to 10 minutes
You create a wall of ice on a solid surface within range. You can form it into a hemispherical dome or a globe with a radius of up to 10 feet, or you can shape a Aat surface made up of ten 10-foot-square
panels. Each panel must be contiguous with another panel. In any form, the wall is I foot thick and lasts for the duration.
If the wall cuts through a creature's space when it appears, the creature is pushed to one sideof the
wall (you choose which side) and makes a Dexterity saving throw, taking 10d6 Cold damage on a failed save or half as much damage on a successful one.
The wall is an object that can be damaged and thus breached. It has AC 12 and 30 Hit Points per 10-foot section. and it has Immunity to Cold, Poi• son, and Psychic damage and Vulnerability to Fire damage. Reducing a 10-foot section of wall to 0 Hit Points destroys it and leaves behind a sheet of frigid air in the space the wall occupied.
A creature moving through the sheet of frigid air for the first time on a turn makes a Constitution saving throw, taking 5d6 Cold damage on a failed save or haIf as much damage on a successful one.
Using a Higher-Level Spell Slot. The damage the wall deals when it appears increases by 2d6 and the damage from passing through the sheet of frigid air increases byld6 for each spell slot level above 6.


WALL OFSTONE
Level 5 Evocation (Druid, Sorcerer, Wizard)
Casting Time: Action
Range: 120 feet
Components: v,S, M (a cube of granite)
Duration: Concentration, up to 10 minutes
A nonmagical wall of solid stone springs into exis-tence at a point you choose within range. The wall is 6 inches thick and is composed of ten 10-foot-by-10-foot panels. Each panel must be contiguous with another panel. Alternatively, you can create JO-foot· by-20-foot panels that are only 3 inches thick.
If the wall cuts through a creature's space when it appears, the creature is pushed to one side of the "'all (you choose which side). If a creature would be surrounded on all sides by the wall (or the wal! and another solid surface), that creature can make
a Dexterity saving throw. On a success, it can use its Reaction to move up to its Speed so that it is no longer enclosed by the waII.
The wall can bave any shape you desire. though it can't occupy the same space as a creature or object. The wall doesn't need to be vertical or rest on a firm foundation. It must. however. merge with and be solidlysupported byexistingstone. Thus, you can use this spell to bridge a chasm or create a ramp.
lf you create a span greater than 20 feet in length, you must halve the size of each panel to createsup-ports. You can crudely shape the wall to create bat-tlements and the like.
The wall is an object made of stone that can be damaged and thus breached. Each panel has AC 15 and 30 Hit Points per inch of thickness, and it has Immunity to Poison and Psychic damage. Reducing a panel to 0 Hit Points destroys it and might cause connected panels to collapse at the DM's discretion.
If you maintain your Concentration on this spell for its full duration, the wall becomes permanent and can't be dispelled. Otherwise, the wall disap-pears when the spell ends.

WALL OF THORNS
Level 6 Co11juratio11 (Druid)
Casting Time: Action Range: 120 feet
Components: V, S, M (a handful of thorns) Duration: Concentration, up to 10 minutes
You create a wall of tangled brush bristling with needle-sharp thorns. The wall appears within range on a solid surface and lasts for the duration. You choose to make the wall up to 60 feet long, 10 feet high, and 5 feet thick or a circle that has a 20-foot diameter and is up to 20 feet high and S feet thick. The wall blocks line of sight.
When the wall appears, each creature in its area makes a Dexterity saving throw, taking7d8 Pierc-ing damage on a failed save or half as much damage on a successful one.
A creature can move through the wall, albeit slowly and painfully. For every I foot a creature moves through the wall. it must spend 4 feet of movement. Furthermore, the first time a creature enters a space in the wall on a turn or ends its turn there, the creature makes a Dexterity saving throw, taking7d8 Slashing damage on a Failed save or half as much damage on a successful one. A creature makes thissave only once per turn.
Using a Higher-Level Spell Slot. Both types of dam· age increase by ld8 for each spell slot level above 6.





CHAPTER 7 I SPELLS	339






WARDING BOND
Level 2 Abjuration (Cleric. Paladin)
Casting Time: Action Range:Touch
Components: V, S, M (a pair of platinum rings worth 50+ GP each, which you and the target must wear for the duration)
Duration: 1 hour
You touch another creature that is willing and create a mystic connection between you and the target until the spell ends. While the target is within 60 feet of you. it gains a +I bonus to AC and saving throws. and it has Resistance to all damage. Also, each time it takes damage, you take the same amount of damage.
The spell ends if you drop to O Hit Points or if you
and the target become separated by more than 60 feet. It also ends if the spell is cast again on either of the connected creatures.

WATER BREATHING
Level3 n·ansmutation (Druid, Ranger, Sorcerer, Wizard)
Casting Time: Action or Ritual
Range: 30 feet
Components: V, S, M (a short reed) Duration: 24 hours
This spell grants up to ten willing creatures of your choice within range the ability to breathe under-water until the spell ends. Affected creatures also retain their normal mode of respiration.

WATER WALK
Level 3 Transmutation (Cleric, Druid, Ranger,Sorcerer)
Casting Time: Action or Ritual
Range: 30 feet
Components: V, S, M (a piece of cork) Duration: l hour
This spell grants the ability to move across any liq-uid surface-such as water, acid. mud, snow, quick-sand, or lava-as if it were harmless solid ground (creatures crossing molten lava can still take dam-age from the heat). Up to ten willing creatures of your choice within range gain this ability for the duration.
An affected target must take a Bonus Action to pass from the liquid's surface into the liquid itself and vice versa, but if the target falls into the liquid, the target passes through the surface into the liquid below,





WEB
Level 2 Conjuratio11 (Sorcerer, Wizard)
Casting Time: Action Range: 60 feet
Components: V, S, M (a bit of spiderweb) Duration: Concentration, up to 1 hour
You conjure a mass of sticky webbing at a point within range. The webs fill a 20-foot Cube there for the duration. The webs are Difficult Terrain, and the area \"ithin them is Lightly Obscured.
If the webs aren't anchored between two solid masses (such as walls or trees) or layered across a floor, wall, or ceiling, the web collapses on itself, and the spell ends at the start of your next turn. Webs layered over a flat surface have a depth of 5 feet.
The first time a creature enters the webs on a turn or starts its turn there, it must succeed on a Dexter-ity saving throw or have the Restrained condition while in the webs or until it breaks free.
A creature Restrained by the webs can take an action to make a Strength (Athletics) check against your spell save DC. If it succeeds, it is no longer Restrained.
The webs are flammable. Any 5-foot Cube of webs exposed to fire burns away in1 round, dealing 2d4 Fire damage to any creature that starts its turn in the fire.

340	CHAPTER 7 I SPEI.LS

WEIRD
Level 911/usion (Warlock,Wizard)
Casting Time: Action Range: 120 feet Components: V, S
Duration: Concentration, up to 1 minute
You try to create illusory terrors in others' minds. Each creature of your choice in a 30-foot-radius Sphere centered on a point within range makes a Wisdom saving throw. On a failed save, a target takes I0dl0 Psychic damage and has the Frightened condition for the duration. On a successfulsave, a target takes half as much damage only.
A Frightened target makes a Wisdom saving throw at the end of each of its turns. On a failed save, it takes SdlO Psychic damage. On a successful save, thespell ends on that target.

W1NoWALK
Level 6 Transmutation (Druid)
Casting Time: 1 minute
Range: 30 feet
Components: V, S, M (a candle) Duration: 8 hours
You and up to ten willing creatures of your choice within range assume gaseous forms for the du-ration, appearing as wisps of cloud. While in this cloud form, a target hasa Fly Speed of 300 feet and can hover; it has Immunity to the Prone condition; and it has Resistance to Bludgeoning. Piercing, and Slashingdamage. The only actions a target can take in this form are the Dash action or a Magic action to begin reverting to its normal form. Reverting takes 1 minute, during which the target has the Stunned condition. Until the spell ends, the target can revert to cloud form, which also requires a Magic action foUo,ved by a I-minute transformation.
If a target is in cloud form and Hying when the ef· fect ends, the target descends 60 feet per round for I minute until it lands. which it does safely. If it can't land after I minute, it falls the remaining distance.


WIND WALL
Level 3 Evocation (Druid, Ranger)
Casting Time: Action Range: 120 feet
Components: V, S, M (a fan and a feather) Duration: Concentration, up to 1 minute
A wall of strong wind rises from the ground at a point you choose within range. You can make the wall up to SO feet long, IS feet high, and I foot thick.
You can shape the wall in any way you choose so long as it makes one continuous path along the ground. The wall lasts for the duration.
When the wall appears, each creature in its area makes a Strength saving throw, taking 4d8 Blud-geoning damage on a failed save or half as much damage on a successful one.
The strong wind keeps fog, smoke, and other gases at bay.Small or smaller Hying creatures or objects can't pass through the wall. Loose, light-weight materials brought into the wall Ay upward. Arrows, bolts, and other ordinary projectiles launched at targets behind the wall are deAected upward and miss automatically. Boulders hurled by Giants or siege engines, and similar projectiles, are unaffected. Creatures in gaseous form can't pass through it.

WISH
Level 9 Conjuration (Sorcerer, Wizard)
Casting Time: Action Range: Self Components: V Duration: Instantaneous
Wish is the mightiest spell a mortal can cast. By sim• plyspeaking aloud, you can alter reality itself.
The basic use of this spell is to duplicate any other spell of level 8 or lower. If you use it this way, you don't need to meet any requirements to cast that spell, including costly components. The spell simply takes effect.
Alternatively, you can create oneof the following effects of your choice:
Object Creation. You create one object of up to 2S,000 GP in value that isn't a magic item. Tbe object can be no more than 300 feet in any di-mension, and it appears in an unoccupied space that you can see on the ground.
Instant Health. You allow yourself and up to twenty creatures that you can see to regain all Hit Points. and you end all effects on them listed in the Greater Restoration spell.
Resistance. You grant up to ten creatures that you can see Resistance to one damage type that you choose. Th.is Resistance is permanent.
SpelJ lmmuruty. You grant up to tea creatures you can see immunity to a single spell or other magi-cal effect for 8 hours.
Sudden Learning. You replace one of your feats with another feat for which you are eligible. You lose aH the benefits of the old feat and gain the benefits of the new one. You can't replace a feat that is a prerequisite for any of your other feats or features.
CHAPTER 7 ) SPELLS	34-1
































Roll Redo. You undo a single recent event by fore• ing a reroll of any die roll made within the last round (including your last turn). Reality reshapes itself to accommodate the new result. For exam-ple, a Wish spell could undo an ally's failed saving throw or a foe's Critical Hit. You can force the re· roll to be made with Advantage or Disadvantage. and you choose ,vhether to use the reroll or the original roll.
Reshape Reality. You may wish for something not included in any of the other effects. To do so, state your ,vish to the DM as precisely as possible. The DM has great latitude in ruling what occurs in such an instance; the greater the ,vish, the greater the likelihood that something goes wrong. This spell might simply fail, the effect you desire might be achieved only in part, or you might suffer an unforeseen consequence as a result of how you worded the wish. For example, wishing that a
\fillain were dead might propel you forward in time to a period when that villain is no longer alive, effectively removing you from the game. Similarly, wishing for a Legendary magic item or an Artifact might instantly transport you to the
































presence of the item's current owner. If your wish is granted and its effects have consequences for a whole community, region, or world. you are likely to attract po,verful foes.If your wish would affect a god, the god's divine servants might instantly in-tervene to prevent it or to encourage you to cralt the wish in a particular way. If your wish would undo the multiverse itself, threaten the City of Sigil, or affect the Lady of Pain in any way, you see an image of her in your mind for a moment; she shakes her head, and your wish fails.
The stress of casting Wish to produce any effect other than duplicating another spell weakens you. Alter enduring that stress, each time you cast a spell until you finish a Long Rest, you take ldlO Necrotic damage per level of that spell. This damage can't be reduced or prevented in any way. ln addition, your Strength score becomes 3 for 2d4 days. For each of those days that you spend restingand doing nothing more than light activity, you.r remaining recovery time decreases by 2 days. F'inally, there is a 33 per· cent chance that you are unable to cast Wish ever again if you suffer this stress.






342	CHAPTER 7) SPELLS
W1TCH BOLT
Level I Evocation (Sorcerer, Warlock,Wizard)
Casting Time: Action Range: 60 feet
Components: V, S, M (a twig struck by lightning) Duration: Concentration, up to 1 minute
A beam of crackling energy lances toward a crea-ture within range, forming a sustained arc of light-ning between you and the target. Make a ranged spell attack against it. On a hit, the target takes 2dl2 Lightning damage.
On each of your subsequent turns, you can take a Bonus Action to deal ldl2 Lightning damage to the target automatically, even if the first attack missed.
The spell ends if the target is ever outside the spell's range or if it has Total Cover from you.
Using a Higher-Level Spell Slot. The initial damage increases by ldl2 for each spell slot level above l.

WORD OF RADIANCE
evocation Cantrip(Cleric)
Casting Time: Action
Range: Self
Components: V, M (a sunburst token) Duration: Instantaneous
Burning radiance erupts from you in a 5-foot Em-anation. Each creature of your choice that you can see in it must succeed on a Constitution saving throw or take ld6 Radiant damage.
Cantrip Upgrade. The damage increases by ld6 when you reach levels 5 (2d6), JI (3d6), and 17 (4d6).

WORD OF RECALL
Level 6 Conjuration (Cleric)
Casting Time: Action Range: 5 feet Component.s:V Duration: Instantaneous
You and up to five willing creatures within 5 feet of you instantly teleport to a previously designated sanctuary. You and any creatures that teleport with you appear in the nearest unoccupied space to the spot you designated when you prepared your sanc-tuary (see below). If you cast thisspell without first preparing a sanctuary. the spell has no effect.
You must designate a location,such as a temple, as a sanctuary by casting this spell there.
WRATHFUL SMITE
Level 1 Necromancy (Paladin)
Casting Time: Bonus Action, which you take immedi-ately after hitting a creature with a Melee weapon or an Unarmed Strike
Range: Self Component: V Duration: 1 minute
The target takes an extra ld6 Necrotic damage from the attack, and it must succeed on a Wisdom saving throw 01· have the Frightened condition until the spell ends. At the end of each of its turns, the Frightened target repeats the save, ending the spell on itself on a success.
Using a Higher-LevelSpellSlot. The damage in-creases by ld6 for each spell slot level above l.

YOLANDE'S REGAL PRESENCE
Level 5 Enchantment (Bard,Wizard)
Casting Time: Action
Range: Self
Component: V, S, M (a miniature tiara) Duration: Concentration, up to 1 minute
You surround yourself with unearthly majesty in a IO-foot Emanation. Whenever the Emanation en-ters the space of a creature you can see and when-ever a creature you can see enters the Emanation or ends its turn there, you can force that creature to make a Wisdom saving throw. On a failed save, the target takes 4d6 Psychic damage and has the Prone condition, and you can push it up to 10 feet away.
On a successfulsave, the target takes half as much damage only. A creature makes this save only once per turn.

ZONE OF TR.UTA
Level 2 Enchantment (Bard,Cleric, Paladin)
Casting Time: Action Range: 60 feet Components: V, S Duration: 10 minutes
You create a magical zone that guards against de-ception in a IS-foot-radius Sphere centered on a point within range. Until the spell ends, a creature that enters the spell's area for the first time on a turn or starts its turn there makes a Charisma sav-ing throw. On a failed save, a creature can't speak a deliberate lie while in the radius. You know whether a creature succe.eds or fails on this save.
An affected creature is aware of the spell and can avoid answering questions to which it would normally respond with a lie.Such a creature can be evasive yet must be truthful.
CHAPTER 7 I SPELLS	343
APPENDIX A
THE MULTIVERSE
y	

This appendix provides an overview of the mul-tiverse, the overarching reality that encompasses D&D's countless worlds and adventures. These realms are explored in greater detail in the Dungeon Master's Guide, along with other planes like the Far Realm, Negative Plane, and Positive Plane.
THE	MATERIAL REALMS
The philosophical and elemental forces of reality converge to create the following planes of existence:
Material Plane. Most D&D adventures take place on the Material Plane, which holds the worlds of settings like Dragonlance, Eberron, the Forgotten Realms, and Greyhawk. There's also room for any world your group creates. Magic and physical laws shape this plane's diverse worlds.
Feywild. This vibrant, idealized realm brims with life and emotion, which are most intense in the realm's Domains of Delight.
Shadowfell. This gloom-haunted realm holds grim wast.elands, haunted ruins, and the infamous Do-mains of Dread.
TRANSITIVE PLANES
The transitive planes serve as paths between planes:
Elemental Chaos. Here on the fringes of the Inner Planes, elemental forces clash unpredictably.
Para-Elemental Planes. In these borderlands be-tween the Elemental Planes, elemental forces combine into realms of ash, ice, magma, and ooze.
THE	OUTER PLANES
Realms where ideas take form and spiritsspend their aA:erlives, the Outer Planes are the homes of immortals. The following locations compose the Outer Planes:
Sigil. Sigil, the City of Doors, is a metropolis rather than a plane at the center of the Outer Planes.
Here portals lead throughout the multiverse, and the enigmatic Lady of Pain maintains order.
Outlands. lnfluences from the other Outer Planes converge in the Outlands, where portals lead to those planes. At the Outlands' center rises the Spire, a pillar atop which floats Sigil.
Other Outer Planes. These planes are listed on the Outer Planes table. Some are paradises, some are nightmare realms, and some are more bizarre.
Each is dominated by forces that embody one or more of the alignments described in chapter 2.

OUTER PLANES
Astral Plane. This endless,silvery expanse links the Material Plane and the Outer Pla.nes. Whole civi-lizations have arisen in this glimmering vastness, while others navigate the magical cosmos in spell-jamming vessels.
Ethereal Plane. This ghostly realm connects the Material Plane and the Inner Planes. The region where the Ethereal Plane overlaps with other planes is called the Border Ethereal, a place where creatures can glimpse visions of planes beyond.
THE	INNER PLANES
Elemental forces and the building blocks of reality originate from these Inner Planes:
Element.a.IPlane of Air. Winds blow clouds and floating islands across thjs boundless sky.
Elemental Plane of Earth. This maze of caverns winds through stone and untold mineral riches. Elemental Plane of Fire. An everlasting inferno,
this realm blazes with life on volcanic islands.
Elemental Plane of Water. This bottomless ocean churns with mysterious sea life.


344	APPENDIX A I THE	MULTIVERSE
Outer Plane Abyss Acheron Arborea Arcadia Beastlands Bytopia Carcerl Elysium Gehenna Hades Limbo Mechanus
Mount Celestia Nine Hells Outlands Pandemonium Ysgard
Alignment Chaotic Evil
Lawful Evil, Lawful Neutral Chaotic Good
Lawful Good, Lawful Neutral Chaotic Good, Neutral Good Lawful Good, Neutral Good Chaotic Evil, Neutral Evil Neutral Good
Lawful Evil, Neutral Evil Neutral Evil
Chaotic Neutral Lawful Neutral Lawful Good Lawful Evil Neutral
Chaotic Evil, Chaotic Neutral Chaotic Good, Chaotic Neutral


















.	• •
mid:13:lffi?


l1ttB.
'
miro


/?mfFia	•	'.























345
APPENDIX B
CREATURE STAT BLOCKS



This appendix provides stat blocks for creatures mentioned elsewhere in the book, particularly in the class. equipment, and spell chapters. See the rules glossary for how to read a stat block, and see the Monster Manual for even more creatures.
The following stat blocks are presented in alpha-
betical order. When the Dungeon Master uses a stat block, the OM may change details in it.

APE	
Medium Beast, Unaligned
AC 12	Initiative +2 (12)
HP 19 (3d8 + 6)
Speed 30 ft., Climb 30 ft.
MOO SAVl	,_.00  ,AV[














BAT	
Tiny Beast, Unaligned
STA 16 +3 +3	DEX 14  +2  +2
INT 6 -2	-2	Wis 12 +1  +l
Skills Athletics +5, Perception +3 Senses Passive Perception 13 Languages None
CR 1/2 (XP 100; PB +2)
CON 14 +2 +2
CHA 7  -2  -2
AC 12
HP 1 (1d4 - 1)
Speed 5 ft., Fly 30 ft.
Initiative +2 (12)
 ACTIONS	
Multiattack. The ape makes two Fist attacks.
Fist. Melee Attack Roll: +5, reach 5 ft. Hit: 5 (1d4 + 3) Bludgeoning damage.
Rock (Recharge6). Ranged Allack Roll: +5, range 25/50 ft. Hit: 10 (2d6 + 3) Bludgeoning damage.


ADGER
ny Beast, Unaligned
?  C 11	Initiative +O (10)
HP 5 (ld4 + 3)
Speed 20 ft., Burrow 5 ft.
Senses Blindsight 60 ft., Passive Perception 11 Languages None
CRO (XP 10; PB +2)
ACTIONS	

Bite. Melee Attack Roll: +4, reach 5 ft. Hit: 1 Piercing damage.

' BLACK BEAR	
Medium Beast. Unaligned
AC 11	lnitiat.ive +l (11)
HP 19 (3d8 + 6)
Speed 30 ft., Climb 30 ft., Swim 30 ft.
MOO SA\lt 	MOD S-Avl
MOO ?VE
MOO SAYŁ	?00  SAVE
MOO SA\'(

STR 10 +0	+O	DEX 11	+0	+0	CoN16	+3	+3
INT 2 -4 -4	Wis 12	+1	+l	CHA 5	-3	-3
Skills Perception +3 Resistances Poison
Senses Darkvision 30 ft., Passive Perception 13
Languages None
CR O (XP 10; PB +2)
 ACTIONS	
Bite. Melee Attack Roll: +2. reach 5 ft. Hit: l Piercing damage.
??-	
Skills Perception +5
Senses Darkvision 60 ft., Passive Perception 15 Languages None
CR1/2 (XP 100; PB +2)
ACTIONS	
Multiattack. The bear makes two Rend attacks.
Rend. Melee Attack Roll: +4, reach 5 ft. Hit: 5 (1d6 + 2) Slashing damage.

346	APPl'}NDIX BI CREATURE STAT BLOCKS












MOD SAVE
STR 13 +1 +1
INT 2  -4 -4
MOO SI-Vt	MOO ?Vl 
DEX 11 +O +O	CON 14 +2 +2
WIS 9  -1	-1	CHA 5 -3	-3
Senses Passive Perception 9 Languages None
CR 1/4 (XP 50; PB +2)
TRAITS	
Bloodied Fury. While Bloodied, the boar has Advantage on attack rolls.
 ACTIONS	
Core. Melee Attack Roll: +3, reach Sft. Hit: 4 (ld6 + 1) Piercing damage. If the boar moved at least 20 feet straight toward the target immediately before the hit, the target takes an extra 3 (ld6) Piercing damage and, if it is Large or smaller, has the Prone condition.
IBROWN BEAR
CAMEL


Large Beast, Unaligned
AC 10	Initiative -1 (9)
HP 17 (2d10 + 6)
Speed 50 ft.
'400  ?Vl	MOC 'iAVf	....OD SA\1Ł

STR 15 +2 +2	DEX 8	-1	-1	CON 17	+3  +5
INT 2  -4 -4	Wis 11 +O +O	CHA 5	-3	-3

Senses Darkvision 60 ft., Passive Perception 10 Languages None
CR 1/8 (XP 25; PB +2)
ACTIONS	
Bite. Melee Attack Roll: +4, reach 5 ft. Hit: 4 (1d4 + 2) Bludgeoning damage.

Large Beast, Unaligned
AC 11	Initiative +1 (11)
HP 22 (3d10 + 6)
Speed 40 ft., Climb 30 ft.
l



Skills Perception +3
Senses Darkvision 60 ft., Passive Perception 13 Languages None
CR 1 (XP 200; PB+2)
ACTIONS	
Multiattack. The bear makes one Bite attack and one Claw attack.
Bite. Melee Attack Roll: +5, reach 5 ft. Hit: 7 (ld8 + 3) Piercing damage.
Claw. Melee Attack Roll: +5, reach 5 ft. Hit: 5 (ld4 + 3) Slashing damage, and the target has the Prone condi-tion if it is Huge or smaller.


E.




Skills Perception +3, Stealth +4
Senses Darkvision 60 ft., Passive Perception 13
Languages None
CR O (XP 10; PB +2)
 TRAITS	
Jumper. The cat's jump distance is determined using its Dexterity rather than its Strength.
 ACTIONS	
Scra!ch. Melee Attack Roll: +4, reach 5 ft. Hit: 1 Slash-L:.'.'.amage.
APPENDIX 8  J CREATURE STAT BLOCKS	34-7












c?oc.o01\.f





Large Beast, Unaligned
AC 12	Initiative +O (10)
HP 13 (2d10 + 2)
Speed 20 ft., Swim 30 ft.
CONSTRICTOR SNAKE
Lorge Beast, Unaligned
AC 13	Initiative +2 (12)
HP 13 (2d10 + 2)
...00 SAV(
STR 15 +2 +2
INT 2 -4	--4
Skills Stealth +2
MOO SAVE
DEX10 +0 +0 Wis 10 +O  +O

CoN13 CHA 5
MOO SAVl
+1  +3
-3	-3
Speed 30 ft., Swim 30 ft.
MOO S.-Vl	MOO SAVŁ

'-401) SA.V(
Senses Passive Perception 10 Languages None
CR 1/2 (XP 100; PB +2)


Skills Perception +2, Stealth +4
Senses Blindsight 10 ft., Passive Perception 12 Languages None
CR 1/4 (XP 50; PB +2)
ACTIONS	
Bite. Melee Attack Roll: +4, reach 5 ft. Hit: 6 (1d8 + 2) Piercing damage.
Constrict. Strength Saving Throw: DC 12, one Medium or smaller creature the snake can see within 5 feet. Fail-ure: 7 (3d4) Bludgeoning damage, and the target has the Grappled condition (escape DC 12).
TRAITS	
Hold Breath. The crocodile can hold its breath for 1 hour.
 ACTIONS	

Bite. Melee Attack Roll: +4, reach 5 ft. Hit: 6 (1d8 + 2) Piercing damage. If the target is Medium or smaller, it has the Grappled condition (escape DC 12). While Grappled, the target has the Restrained condition.





















Bite. Melee Attack Roll: +5, reach 5 ft. Hit: 8 (ldlO+ 3) Piercing damage, and the target has the Prone condi-tion ifit is Huge or smaller.


348	APPENDIX BI CREATURE STAT BLOCKS


CR 1/4 (XP 50; PB +2)
ACTIONS	

Hooves. Melee Attack Roll: +6, reach 5 ft. Hii: 6 (ld4
+ 4) Bludgeoning damage.


 ACTIONS	
Ram. Melee Attack Roll: +5, reach 5 ft. Hit: 6 (ld6 + 3) Bludgeoning damage. If the elk moved at least 20 feet straight toward the target immediately before the hit, the target takes an extra 3 (ld6) Bludgeoning damage and, if it is Huge or smaller, has the Prone condition.



ELEPHANT
Huge Beast, Unaligned
[ AC 12	Initiative -1 (9)
HP 76 (8d12 + 24)
Speed 40 ft.
'-100 ?'-Vl 	"00  SAVE









MOO SA\.'1_
STR 22 +6 +6	Dex 9  -1  -1
INT 3  -4 -4	w,s 11 +O +0
Senses Passive Perception 10 languages None
CR 4 (XP 1,100; PB +2)
CON 17 +3  +3
CHA 6  -2 -2
 ACTIONS	
Multialtack. The elephant makes two Gore attacks.
Core. Melee Attack Roll: +8, reach 5 ft. Hit: 15 (2d8 + 6) Piercing damage. If the elephant moved at least 20 feet straight toward the target immediately before the hit, the target also has the Prone condition.
 BONUS ACTIONS	
Trample. Dexterity Saving Throw: DC 16, one creature within 5 feet that has the Prone condition. Failure: 17 (2d10 + 6) Bludgeoning damage. Success: Half damage.
APPENDIX 8 I CREATURE STAT BLOCKS	349




















HP 15 (2d8 + 6)
Speed 30 ft., Burrow 10 ft.

Skills Perception +3

Senses Darkvision 60 ft., Passive Perception 13
(	Languages None
CR l/2 (XP 100; PB +2)


Skills Perception +3 Resistances Poison
Senses Darkvision 60 ft., Passive Perception 13 Languages None
CR 1/4 (XP SO: PB +2)
ACTIONS	
Bite. Melee Auack Roll: +3, reach 5 ft. Hrt: 6 (2d4 + l) Piercing damage.
ACTIONS	
Ram. Melee Attack Roll: +5, reach 5 ft. Hit: 6 (ld6 + 3) Bludgeoning damage. If the goat moved at least 20 feet straight toward the target immediately before the hit, the target takes an extra S (2d4) Bludgeoning damage and, if it is Huge or smaller, has the Prone condition.































350	APPENDIX 8 I CREATURE STAT BLOCKS
ACTIONS	
Rom. Melee Attack Roll: +4, reach S ft. Hit: 9 (2d6 + 2) Bludgeoning damage, or the seahorse deals 11 (2d8
+ 2) Bludgeoning damage if it moved at least 20 feet straight toward the target immediately before the hit.
 BONUS ACTIONS	
Bubble Dash. While underwater, the seahorse moves up to half its Swim Speed without provoking Opportu-
nity Attacks.	_J


GIANT SPIOUU

















GIANT WEASEL
Medium Beasr, Unaligned
AC 13	Initiative +3 (13) HP9 (2d8)
Speed 40 ft.. Climb 30 ft.


GIANT SPIDER
MOO SAVE
STR 11 +O +O INT 4  -3  -3
MOO SAVl
DEX 17 +3 +3
w,s 12 +1  +1
MOO SAVE
CON 10 +O +O CHA 5  -3 -3
Large Beast, Unaligned
AC14	Initiative +3 (13)
HP 26 (4d10 + 4)
Speed 30 ft., Climb 30 ft.
Skills Acrobatics +5, Perception +3, Stealth +5 Senses Darkvision 60 ft.. Passive Perception 13 Languages None
CR 1/8 (XP 25; PB +2)
MOO U\IE
STR 14 +2 +2
INT 2  -4	-4
µoo s?vc
DEX 16 +3 +3 Wis 11 +O +O
MOO 5AV[
CON 12 +1 +1
CHA 4 -3	-3
ACTIONS	
Bite. Melee Attack Roll: +5, reach 5 ft. Hit: 5 (ld4 + 3) Piercing damage.

Skills Perception +4, Stealth +7
Senses Darkvision 60 ft., Passive Perception 14 languages None
CR l (XP 200; PB +2)
TRAITS	
Spider Climb. The spider can climb difficult surfaces, including along ceilings, without needing to make an ability check.
Web Walker. The spider ignores movement restrictions caused by webs, and it knows the location of any other creature in contact with the same web.
ACTIONS	
Bite. Melee Altack Roll: +5, reach 5 ft. Hi1: 7 (ld8 + 3) Piercing damage plus 7 (2d6) Poison damage.
Web (Recharge5-6). Dexterity Saving Throw: DC 13, one creature the spider can see within 60 feet. Failure: The target has the Restrained condition until the web is destroyed (AC 10; HP 5; Vulnerability to Fire damage; Immunity to Poison and Psychic damage).


GOAT	
Medium Beast, Unaligned
AC 10	Initiative +0 (10)
HP 4 (ld8)
Speed 40 ft., Climb 30 ft.
._.,00 S&.V(	MOD SAV(	MOO SA.Vt

STR 11 +0  +2	DEX 10	+0 +0	CON 11	+0  +0
INT  2 -4  -4	WIS 10	+0  +0	CHA 5	-3  -3

Skills Perception +2
Senses Darkvision 60 ft., Passive Perception 12 languages None
CR O (XP 10; PB +2)
ACTIONS	
Ram. Melee Attack Roll: +2, reach 5 ft. Hit: 1 Bludgeon• ing damage, or the goat deals 2 (ld4) Bludgeoning damage If it moved at least 20 feet straight toward the target immediately before the hit.
APPENDIX 8  I CREATURE STAT 81.0CKS	351
HAWK
Tiny Beast, Unaligned
AC13	Initiative +3 (13)
HP 1 (ld4 - 1)
Speed 10 ft., Fly 60 ft.
MOO SAVl	MOO SAVI









"00  SAvt
Sn	5  -3	-3	DEX16 +3  +3
INT 2  -4 -4	Wis 14 +2  +2
Skills Perception +6
Sense.s Passive Perception 16 Languages None
CR O (XP 10; PB +2)
CON 8	-1  -1
CHA 6 -2	-2
 ACTIONS	
Talons. Melee Attack Roll:+S, reach 5 ft. Hit:1 Slash-ing damage.

IMP
Tiny Fiend (Devil}, Lawful Evil
AC13	Initiative +3 (13)
HP 21 (6d4 + 6)
Speed 20 ft., Fly 40 ft.
MOO $.AV(	MOO $AVt









MOO 5AVl


I LION
Large Beast, Unaligned
Sn	6  -2	-2	Dex 17 +3  +3
INT 11 +0 +0	WIS 12 +l  +l
CON 13 +1 +1
CHA 14 +2 +2
AC 12	Initiative +2 (12)
HP 22 (4d10)
Speed SO ft.
Skills Deception +4, Insight +3, Stealth +S Resistances Cold
Immunities Fire, Poison; Poisoned
Senses Darkvision 120 ft., Passive Perception 11 Languages Common, Infernal
CR 1 (XP 200; PB +2)
TRAITS	
Devil's Sight. Magical Darkness doesn't impede the
YOO SAVE	MOO ?Vl 
STR 17 +3 +3	Dex 15 +2  +2	CON 11
INT 3 -4	-4	WIS 12 +l	+l	CHA 8
Skills Perception +3, Stealth +4
Senses Darkvision 60 ft., Passive Perception 13 Languages None
CR 1 (XP 200; PB +2)
MOO ?VL 
+O +O
-1	-1
imp's Darkvision.
Magic Resistance. The imp has Advantage on saving throws against spells and other magical effects.
 ACTIONS	
Sling. Melee Attack Roll:+S, reach S ft. Hit: 6 (ld6 + 3) Piercing damage plus 7 (2d6) Poison damage.
Invisibility. The imp casts Invisibility on itself, requiring no spell components and using Charisma as the spell-casting ability.
Shape-Shift. The imp shape-shifts to resemble a rat (Speed 20 ft.), a raven (20 ft., Fly 60 ft.), or a spider (20 ft., Climb 20 ft.), or it returns to its true form. Its statistics are the same in each form, except for its Speed. Any equipment it's wearing or carrying isn't transformed.
TRAITS	
Pock Tactics. The lion has Advantage on an attack roll against a creature if at least one of the lion's allies is within S feet of the creature and the ally doesn't have the incapacitated condition.
Running Leap. With a JO-foot running start, the lion can Long Jump up to 25 feet.
 ACTIONS	
Mullialtock. The lion makes two Rend attacks. It can replace one of these attacks with a use of Roar.
Rend. Melee Atlock Roll:+S, reach S ft. Hit: 7 (ld8 + 3) Slashing damage.
Roar.Wisdom Saving Throw: DC 11, one creature within 1S feet. Failure: The target has the Frightened condition until the start ofthe lion's next turn.




352	APPENDIX 8 I CREATURE STAT BLOCKS
..
















?ARD
Tiny Bean, Unaligned
[

AC 10	Initiative +O (10)
HP 2 (1d4)
Speed 20 ft., Climb 20 ft.


Beast of Burden. The mule counts as one size larger for the purpose of determining its carrying capacity.
MOO SA\ll
STA 2 -4	-4
INT	-5	-5
MOD SAVE
DEX 11 +O +O
w,s 8  -1 -1
?00  SAVE
CON10 +O +0
CHA 3 -4	-4
Senses Darkvision 30 ft., Passive Perception 9 Languages None
CR O (XP 10; PB +2)
TRAITS	
Spider Climb. The lizard can climb difficult surfaces, including along ceilings, without needing to make an ability check.
ACTIONS	
Bite. Melee Attack Roll: +2, reach 5 ft. Hit: 1 Piercing damage.




Skills Perception +5
Senses Darkvision 60 ft., Passive Perception 15 Languages None
CR 1/8 (XP 25; PB +2)
 ACTIONS	
Bite. Melee Attack Roll: +3, reach 5 ft. Hit: 4 (ld6 + 1) Piercing damage, and the target has the Prone condi-tion ifit isLarge or smaller.
Tentacles. Melee Attack Roll: +4, reach 5 ft. Hit: 1 Blud-geoning damage.
 REACTIONS	
Ink Cloud (I/Day). Trigger: A creature ends its turn within 5 feet of the octopus while underwater. Response: The octopus releases ink that fills a 5-foot Cube cen-tered on itself, and the octopus moves up to its Swim Speed. The Cube is Heavily Obscured for 1 minute or until a strong current or similar effect disperses the ink.
APPENDIX B I CREATURE STAT BLOCKS	353

















HP 1 (ld4 - 1)				STR 15	+2	+4	DEX 10	+0	+0	CON 13	+1 +1
Speed 5 ft., Fly 60 ft.				INT 2	-4	-4	w,s 11	+0	+0	CHA 7	-2  -2
MOO SAV(	MOO SAVE	MOO s.\Vl									




Skills Perception +S, Stealth +5
Senses Darkvision 120 ft., Passive Perception 15 Languages None
CR O (XP 10; PB +2)
TRAITS	
Flyby. The owl doesn't provoke Opportunity Attacks when it flies out of an enemy's reach.
 ACTIONS	
Talons. Melee Attack Roll: +3, reach S ft. Hit: 1 Slash-ing damage.








STR 14 +2 +2	DEX 15	+2 +2	CON10	+0	+0	CR 1/4 (XP 50; PB +2)
INT 3  -4  -4	Wrs 14	+2  +2	CHA 7	-2	-2	TRAITS	




















354-	.?PPEN0IX 8 I CREATURE STAT BLOCKS












RAT
Tiny Beast.Unaligned
AC 10	Initiative +O (10)
HP 1 (ld4 - 1)
Speed 20 ft., Climb 20 ft.

UASIT
Tiny Fiend (Demon), Chaotic Evil
MOO SA.VE
STR 2  -4 -4
INT 2 -4	-4
MOO SAVE DEX 11 +0 +O Wis 10 +O +O
MOO SA.Vl
CON 9 -1 -1
CHA 4  -3	-3
AC 13	Initiative +3 (13)
HP 25 (10d4)
Speed 40 ft.
.,.00 SAVE	MOO SAV(	._.00 SAVE
STR 5  -3 -3	Dex 17 +3 +3	CON 10 +O +O
INT  7 -2  -2	Wis 10 +O +O	CHA 10 +0 +0
Skills Stealth +S
Resistances Cold, Fire, Lightning Immunities Poison; Poisoned
Senses Darkvision 120 ft., Passive Perception 10 Languages Abyssal, Common
CR 1 (XP 200; PB +2)
TRAITS	
Magic Resistance. The quasit has Advantage on saving throws against spells and other magical effects.
 ACTIONS	
Rend. Melee Attack Roll:+S, reach 5 ft. Hit:5 (1d4 + 3) Slashing damage, and the target has the Poisoned con-dition until the start of the quasit's next turn.
Invisibility. The quasit casts Invisibility on itself, requir-ing no spell components and using Charisma as the spellcasting ability.
Scare (1/Day). Wisdom Saving Throw: DC 10, one crea-ture within 20 feet. Failure: The target has the Fright-ened condition. At the end of each of its turns, the
target repeats the save, ending the effect on itself on a success. After 1 minute, it succeeds automatically.
Shape-Shift. The quasit shape-shifts to resemble a bat (Speed 10 ft., Fly 40 ft.), a centipede (40 ft., Climb 40 ft.), or a toad (40 ft., Swim 40 ft.), or it returns to its true form. Its statistics are the same in each form, ex-
cept for its Speed. Any equipment it's wearing or carry• ing isn't transformed.
Skills Perception +2
Senses Darkvision 30 ft., Passive Perception 12 Languages None
CR O (XP 10; PB +2)
 TRAITS	
Agile. The rat doesn't provoke Opportunity Attacks when it moves out of an enemy's reach.
 ACTIONS	
Bite. Me/ee Attack Roll:+2, reach 5 ft. Hit:1 Piercing damage.









APPENDIX BI CREATURE STAT BLOCKS	355























STR 14 +2 +2	DEX 1S	+2	+2	CON 13	+1	+1	Speed 10 ft.	
INT l	-S	-S	Wis 10	+0	+O	CHA 4	-3	-3	MOO $AV[	l.iOO SAvt	MOO SAVl






























CR 1/4 (XP SO; PB +2)



356	APPENDIX B I CREATURE STAT BLOCKS

SLAAD TADPOLE
Tiny Aberration, Chaotic Neutral
AC 12	Initiative +2 (12)
HP 7 (3d4)
Speed 30 ft., Burrow 10 ft.
MOO SAVE	MOO SAVE









MOO SA'Vt
STR 7 -2	-2	DEX 15 +2 +2
INT  3 -4  -4	Wis 5  -3	-3
Skills Stealth +4
CON10 +O +0
CHA 3 -4  -4
Resistances Acid, Cold, Fire, Lightning, Thunder Senses Darkvision 60 ft.. Passive Perception 7 Languages Understands Slaad but can't speak CR 1/8 (XP 25; PB +2)
TRAITS	
Magic Resistance. The slaad has Advantage on saving throws against spells and other magical effects.
ACTIONS	
Bite. Melee Attack Roll:+4, reach 5 ft. Hit: 5 (1d6+ 2) Piercing damage.

SPHINX OF WONDER
Tiny Celestial, Lawful Cood
AC 13	Initiative +3 (13)
HP 24 (7d4 + 7}
Speed 20 ft., Fly 40 ft.
MOO s,.vr	MOO 'SAV[
STR 6 -2 -2	DEX 17 +3  +3	CON 13 +l	+l

SPIDER
Tiny Beast, Unaligned
AC 12	Initiative +2 (12)
HP 1 (1d4 - 1)
Speed 20 ft., Climb 20 ft.
INT 15 +2  +2	Wis 12 +1  +1	CHA 11 +0 +0
Skills Arcana +4, Religion +4, Stealth +5 Resistances Necrotic, Psychic, Radiant
Senses Darkvision 60 ft., Passive Perception 11
MOO SAYE
STR2-4-4 INT	-5	-5
Skills Stealth +4
MOO SAVE
DEX 14 +2  +2
Wis 10 +O +0
MOO SAYŁ
CON 8 -1	-1
CHA 2 -4 -4

Languages Celestial, Common CR 1 (XP 200; PB+2)
TRAITS	
Magic Resistance. The sphinx has Advantage on saving throws against spells and other magical effects.
 ACTIONS	
Rend. Melte Attack Roll: +5, reach 5 ft. Hit: 5 (1d4 + 3) Slashing damage plus 7 (2d6) Radiant damage.
 REACTIONS	
Burst of Ingenuity (2/Day). Trigger: The sphinx or an-other creature within 30 feet makes an ability check or a saving throw. Response: The sphinx adds 2 to the roll.
Senses Darkvision 30 ft.. Passive Perception 10 Languages None
CR O (XP 10; PB +2)
TRAITS	
Spider Climb. The spider can climb difficult surfaces, including along ceilings, without needing to make an ability check.
Web Walker. The spider ignores movement restrictions caused by webs, and the spider knows the location of any other creature in contact with the same web.
 ACTIONS	
Bite. Melee Attack Roll:+4, reach 5 ft. Hit: l Piercing damage plus 2 (1d4) Poison damage.
APPENDIX BJ CRl!ATURI! STAT BLOCKS	357














TIGER
Large Beast, Unaligned
AC 13	Initiative +3 (13)
HP 22 (3d10 + 6)
Speed 40 ft.
MOO ?YE	MOO SAVf









MOO SAYŁ
STR 17 +3 +3	DEX 16 +3	+3
INT 3 -4	-4	W1s 12 +1  +1
Skills Perception +3, Stealth +7
CON 14 +2 +2
CHA 8 -1	-1
Senses Darkvision 60 ft., Passive Perception 13 Languages None
CR 1 (XP 200; PB +2)


SPRITE
Tiny Fey, Neutral Good
AC 15	Initiative +4 (14)
HP 10 (4d4)
Speed 10 ft., Fly 40 ft.
MOO SAVE	MOD SAVt'.










MOO SAVE
 ACTIONS	
Multiattack. The tiger makes one Pounce attack and uses Prowl.
Pounce. Melee Atlack Roll: +5, reach 5 ft. Hit: 6 (ld6
+ 3) Slashing damage. If the tiger had Advantage on the attack roll, the target takes an extra 3 (1d6) Slash-ing damage and, ifit is Huge or smaller. has the Prone
STR 3 -4	-4	DEX 18 +4 +4
INT 14 +2 +2	W1s 13 +1  +1
Skills Perception +3, Stealth +8 Senses Passive Perception 13 Languages Common, Elvish, Sylvan CR 1/4 (XP 50; PB +2)
CON 10 +O +O CHA 11 +0 +O
condition.
Prawl. The tiger moves up to half its Speed without provoking Opportunity Attacks. At the end of this movement, the tiger can take the Hide action.

r VENOMOUS SNAKE
 ACTIONS	
Needle Sword. Melee Allack Roll: +6. reach 5 ft. Hit: 6 (ld4 + 4) Piercing damage.
Enchanting Bow. Ranged Attack Roll: +6, range 40/160 ft. Hit: 1 Piercing damage, and the target has the Charmed condition until the start of thesprite's next turn.
Heart Sight. Charisma Saving Throw: DC 10, one crea-ture within 5 feet the sprite can see. Celestials, Fiends, and Undead automatically fail the save. Failure: The sprite knows the target's emotions and alignment.
Invisibility. The sprite casts Invisibility on itself, requir• ing no spell components and using Charisma as the spellcasting ability.
Tiny Beast, Unaligned
AC12	Initiative +2 (12) HP S (2d4)
Speed 30 ft., Swim 30 ft.
MOD SAVE	?00  SAY(	MOO SAVE
STR 2  --4 -4	DEX 15 +2 +2	CON 11 +O +0
INT 1	-5	-5 Wis 10 +O +O	CHA 3 --4 -4
Senses Blindsight 10 ft., Passive Perception 10 Languages None
CR 1/8 (XP 25; PB +2)
 ACTIONS	
Bite. Melee Attack Roll: +4, reach 5 ft. Hit: 4 (1d4 + 2) Piercing damage plus 3 (ld6) Poison damage.



358	APPENDIX 8 I CREATURE STAT BLOCKS











Wov
rWARHORSE
Lorge Beost, Unoligned
AC 11	lnitiat.ive +l (11)
HP 19 (3d10 + 3)
Speed 60 ft.
"400 ?Vl	MOO SA<J(
STR 18 +4 +4	DEX 12 +1 +1	CON 13
INT 2  -4  -4	Wis 12 +l	+3	CHA 7
Senses Passive Perception 11 Languages None
CR 1/2 (XP 100; PB+2)



l
MOO $A\'
+l	+1
-2 -2
WOLF

Medium Beost, Unaligned
AC 12	Initiative +2 (12)
HP 11 (2d8 + 2)
Speed 40 ft.
MOO SAY(	._,00 $AVE	MOO s.tVt
STR 14 +2 +2	DEX 15 +2 +2	CON 12 +1 +l
INT 3  -4  --4  WIS 12 +1  +1	CHA 6 -2	-2
Skills Perception +5, Stealth +4
Senses Darkvision 60 ft., Passive Perception 15 Languages None
CR 1/4 (XP 50; PB +2)
TRAITS	
Po,k To,tics. The wolf has Advantage on attack rolls against a creature if at least one of the wolrs allies is within 5 feet of the creature and the ally doesn't have the Incapacitated condition.


 ACTIONS	
Hooves. Melee Attack Roll: +6, reach 5 ft. Hit: 9 (2d4
+ 4) Bludgeoning damage. If the horse moved at least 20 feet straight toward the target immediately before the hit, the target takes an extra 5 (2d4) Bludgeoning damage and, ifit is Huge or smaller, has the Prone condition.









STR 3  -4	-4	DEX 16	+3  +3	CON 8	-1	-1
INT  2  -4 -4	Wis 12	+1  +1	CHA 3	-4	-4












APPENDIX BI CREATURE STAT BLOCKS	359
APPENDIX C
RULES GLOSSARY
'\\	

GLOSSARY  CONVENTIONS
The glossary uses the following conventions:
Tags in Brackets. Some entries have a tag in brack-ets aA:er the entry's name, as in '"Attack (Action].'' A tag-Action, Area of Effect, Attitude, Condition, or Hazard-indicates that a rule is part of a family of rules. The tags also have glossary entries.
"You." The game"s rules-in this glossary and else-where-often talk about something happening to you in the game world. That "you" refers to the creature or object that the rule applies to in a par-ticular moment of play. For example. the "you" in the Prone condition is a creature that currently has that condition.
"See Also." Some glossary entries include a Seealso
section that points to other entries in the glossary, to chapters in this book, or both.
No Obsolete Terms. The glossary contains defini-tions of current rules terms only. If you're looking for a term from an earlier version of the fiA:h edi-tion rules, consult the index.
Abbreviations.The abbreviations listed below ap• pear in this glossary and elsewhere in the rules.

AC  Armor Class	M   Material
RULES DEFINITIONS
Here are definitions of various rules.


ABILITY CHECK
An ability check is a D20 Test that represents using one of the six abilities-or a specificskill associated with an ability-to overcome a challenge. See also chapter l ("D20 Tests" and "Proficiency").


ABILITY SCORE AND MODIFIER
A creature has six abilityscores-Strength, Dexter-ity. Constitution, Intelligence, Wisdom, and Cha-risma-each of which has a corresponding modifier. Add the modifier when you make a D20 Test with the corresponding ability or when a rule asks you to do so. See also chapter 1 ("The Six Abilities").


ACTION
On your turn, you can take one action. Choose which action to take from those below or from the special actions provided by your features. See also chapter I ("Actions"). These actions are denned else-where in thisglossary:
C	Concentration	component
CE	Chaotic Evil	N	Neutral
CG	Chaotic Good	NE Neutral Evil Cha. Charisma	NG Neutral Good
Attack Dash Disengage
Dodge Help Hide
Influence Magic Ready
Search Study Utilize
CN Chaotic Neutral	NPC Nonplayer Con. Constitution		character
CP  Copper Piece(s)	PB	Proficiency
ADVANTAGE
If you have Advantage on a D20 Test. roll two d20s, and use the higher roll. A roll can't be affected by
CR  Challenge Rating
DC	Difficulty Class	PP
Bonus
Platinum Piece(s)
more than one Advantage, and Advantage and Dis· advantage on the same roll cancel each other. See
R	Ritual
also chapter I ("020 Tests").
Dex.  Dexterity
s	Somatic
DM	 Dungeon Master		 component EP	Electrum Piece(s)	SP	Silver Piece(s) GP Gold Piece(s)	 Str. Strength
HP	Hit Point(s)	V	Verbal
Int.	Intelligence		 component LE	 Lawful Evil	Wis.	Wisdom LG	 Lawful Good	 XP Experience LN	 Lawful Neutral		 Point(s)
ADVENTURE
An adventure is a series of encounters. Astory emerges through playing them. See also "Encounter."


ALIGNMENT
A creature's alignment broadly describes its ethical attitudes and ideals. Alignment is a combination of two factors: one identifies morality (good, evil, or neutral), and the other describes attitudes toward


360	APPENDIX CI RULES GLOSSARY
order (lawful, chaotic, or neutral). These factors al· low for nine possible combinations.such as Lawful Good and Neutral Evil. Seealso chapter 2 ("Create Your Character").

ALLY
A creature is your ally if it is a member of your adventuring party, your friend, on your side in combat, or a creature that the rules or the OM des-ignates as your ally.

AREA OF EFFECT
The descriptions of many spells and other features specify that they have an area of effect, which typi-cally has one of six shapes. These shapes are defined elsewhere in this glossary:

ATTACK (ACTION]
When you take the Attack action, you can make one attack roll with a weapon or an Unarmed Strike.
Equipping and Unequipping Weapons. You can ei-ther equjp or unequip one weapon when you make an attack as part of this action. You do so either before or after the attack. If you equip a weapon before an attack, you don't need to use it for that at-tack. Equipping a weapon includes drawing it from a sheath or picking it up. Uneguipping a weapon includes sheathing, stowing, or dropping it.
Movingbetween Attacks. If you move on your turn and have a feature, such as Extra Attack, that gives you more than one attack as part of the Attack ac-tion. you can usesome or all of that movement to move between those attacks.
Cone Cube
Cylinder Emanation
Line Sphere

ATTACK ROLL
An attack roll is a 020 Test that represents making
An area of effect has a point of origin, a location from which the effect's energy erupts. The rules for each shape specify bow to position its point of ori-gin. If all straight lines extending from the point of origin to a location in the area of effect are blocked, that location isn't included in the area of effect.
To block a line, an obstruction must provide Total Cover.See also '·Cover."
If the creator of an a1·ea of effect places it at an unseen point and an obstruction-such as a wall-is between the creator and that point, the point of origin comes into beingon the near side of the obstruction.

ARMOR CLASS
An Armor Class (AC) is the target number for an attack roll. AC represents how difficult it is to hit a target.
Your base AC calculation is 10 plus your Dexterity modifier. If a rule gives you another base ACcal-culation, you choose which calculation to use; you can't use more than one. See also "Attack Roll."

ARMOR '!'RAINlNC
Armor training allows you to usearmor of acer· tain category without the following drawbacks. If you wear Light, Medium, or Heavy armor and lack training with it, you have Disadvantage on any 020 Test that involves Strength or Dexterity, and you can't cast spells. If you use a Shield and lack training with it, you don't gain its AC bonus. See also"Disad-vantage" and chapter 6 ("Armor").
an attack with a weapon, an Unarmed Strike, or a spell. See also chapter t ("020 Tests").

ATTITUDE
A monster has a starting attitude toward a player character: Friendly, Hostile, or Indifferent. See also "Friendly," "Hostile," "Indifferent," and "Influence.''

ATTUNEMENT
Some magic items require a creature to form a bond-called Attunement-with them before the creature can use an item's magical properties. A creature can have Attunement with no more than three magic items at a time. See also chapter 6 ("Magic Items").

BLINDED [CONDITION]
While you have the Blinded condition, you experi-ence the followingeffects.
Can't See. You can't see and automatically fail any ability check that requires sight.
Attacks Affected. Attack rolls against you have Advantage, and your attack rolls have Disadvantage.

BLINDSICHT
If you have Blindsight, you can see within a specific range without relyingon physical sight. Within that range, you can see anything that isn't behind Total Cover even if you have the Blinded condition or are in Darkness. Moreover, in that range, you can see something that has the Invisible condition.
APPENDIX CI RULES GLOSSARY	361












BLOODIED
A creature is .Bloodied while it has half its Hit Points or fewer remaining.

BONUS ACTION
A Bonus Action is a special action that you can take on the same turn that you take an action. You can't take more than one Bonus Action on a turn, and you have a Bonus Action to take only if a rule ex-plicitly says so. See also chapter l ('"Actions'").

BREAKING OBJECTS
Objects can be harmed by attacks and by some spells, using the rules below. If an object is exceed-ingly fragile, the OM may allow a creature to break it automatically with the Attack or Utilize action.
Armor Class. The Object Armor Class table sug· gests ACs for various substances.

OBJECT ARMOR CLASS

AC	Substance	AC	Substance
11	Cloth, paper, rope	19	Iron, steel
13	Crystal, glass, ice	21	Mithra)
15	Wood	23	Adamantine
17	Stone		
Hit Points. An object is destroyed when it has 0 Hit Points.The Object Hit Points table suggests Hit Points for fragile and resilient objects that are Large or smaller. To track Hit Points for a Huge or Gar· gantuan object, divide it into Large or smaller sec· tions. and track each section's Hit Pointsseparately. The OM determines whether destroying part of an object causes the whole thing to collapse.
OBJECT HIT POINTS
Size	Fragile	Resilient
Tiny (bottle, lock)	2 (ld4)  s (2d4)
Small (chest, lute)	 3 (ld6) 10 (3d6) Medium (barrel, chandelier) 4 (ld8) 18 (4d8) Large (cart, dining table)	5 (ldl0)  27 (Sdl0)
Damage 'fypes and Objects. Objects have Immu-nity to Poison and Psychic damage. The OM might decide that some damage typesare more or less









effective against an object. For example, Bludgeon· ing damage works well for smashing things but not for cutting. Paper or cloth objects might have Vul-nerability to Fire damage.
Damage Threshold. Big objects, such as castle walls, often have extra resilience represented by a damage threshold. See also "Damage Threshold."
No Ability Scores. An object lacks ability scores unless a rule assigns scores to the object. Without abilityscores, an object can't make abilitychecks, and it fails all saving throws.

BRIGHT LIGHT
Bright Light is normal illumination. See also chapter I ("Exploration'").

BURNJNG [HAZARD]
A burning creature or object takes ld4 Fire damage at the start of each of its turns. As an action, you can extinguish fire on yourself by giving yourself the Prone condition and rolling on the ground.
The firealso goes out if it is doused, submerged, or suffocated.

BURROW SPEED
A creature that has a Burrow Speed can use that speed to move throughsand, earth, mud, or ice. The creature can·t burrow through solid rock unless the creature has a trait that allows it to do so. See also "Speed."

CAMPAIGN
A campaign is a series of adventures. See also
0Adventure.'1


CANTR!P
Acantrip is a level 0 spell, which is cast without a spell slot. See also chapter 7.

CARRYING CAPACITY
Your size and Strength score determine the maxi• mum weight in pounds that you can carry, as shown in the Carrying Capacity table. The table also shows the maximum weight you can drag, lift, or push.

362	APPENDIX CI RULES GLOSSARY


While dragging, lifting, or pushing weight in ex· cess of the maximum weight you can carry, your Speed can be no more than 5 feet.
CARRYING CAPACITY

Creature Size	Carry	Drag/Lift/Push
Tiny	Str. x 7.5 lb.	Str. x 15 lb.
Small/Medium	Str. x 15 lb.	Str. x 30 lb.
Large	Str. x 30 lb.	Str. x 60 lb.
Huge	Str. x 60 lb.	Str. x 120 lb.
Gargantuan	Str. x 120 lb.	Str. x 240 lb.



CHALLllNOE RAT!NO
Challenge Rating (CR) summarizes the threat a monster poses to a group of four player characters. Compare a monster's CR to the characters' level.
If the CR is higher, the monster is likely a danger.
If the CR is lower, the monster likely poses little threat. But circumstances and the number of player characters can significantly alter how threatening a monster is in actual play. The Dungeon Master's Guide provides guidance to the OM on using CR while planning potential combat encounters.See also ""Stat Block."

CHARACTllR SHEET
A character sheet is a paper or digital record that you use to track your character's information.See also chapter 2.


CHARMED [CONDITION]
While you have the Charmed condition, you experi· ence the following effects.
Can't Harm the Charmer. You can't attack the charmer or target the charmer with damaging abili· ties or magical effects.
At the DM's option, climbing a slippery surface or one with few handholds might require a successful DC15 Strength (Athletics) check.

CLIMB SPEED
A Climb Speed can be used in place of Speed to tra-verse a vertical surface without expending the extra movement normally associated with climbing. See also "Climbing" and "Speed."


CONCENTRATION
Some spells and other effects require Concentration to remain active. as specified in their descriptions. If the effect's creator loses Concentration, the effect ends. If the effect has a maximum duration, the ef-fect's description specifies how long the creator can concentrate on it: up to I minute, I hour, or some other duration. The creator can end Concentration at any time (no action required). The following fac-tors break Concentration.
Another Concentration Effect. You lose Concen• tration on an effect the moment you start casting a spell that requires Concentration or activate an-other effect that requires Concentration.
Damage. If you take damage, you must succeed on a Constitution saving throw to maintain Concen-tration. The DC equals 10 or half the damage taken (round down), whichever number is higher, up to a maximum DC of 30.
Incapacitated or Dead. Your Concentration ends if you have the Incapacitated condition or you die.

CONDITION
A condition is a temporary game state. The defini-tion of a condition says how it affects its recipient, and various rules define how to end a condition. Thisglossary defines these conditions:
Blinded	Grappled	Poisoned
Social Advantage. The charmer bas Advantage on anyability check to interact with you socially.
Charmed Deafened Exhaustion
Incapacitated	Prone
Invisible	Restrained
Paralyzed	Stunned
CLTMB!NO
While you're climbing, each foot of movement costs l extra foot (2 extra feet in Difficult Terrain). You ignore this extra cost if you have a Climb Speed and use it to climb.
Frightened	Petrified	Unconscious
A condition doesn't stack with itself;a recipient ei-ther has a condition or doesn't. The Exhaustion con-dition is an exception to that rule. See also chapter I ("Conditions").
APPENDIX CI RULllS GLOSSARY	363

CONE [AREA OF EFFECT]
A Cone is an area of effect that extends in straight lines from a point of origin in a direction its cre-ator chooses. A Cone's width at any pointalong its length is equal to that point's distance from the point of origin. For example, a Cone is 15 feet wide at a point along its length that is IS feet from the
point of origin.The effect that creates a Cone speci-fies its max_imum length.
A Cone's point of origin isn't included in the area of effect unless its creator decides otherwise.

COVER
Cover provides a degree of protection to a target behind it. There are three degrees of cover, each of ,vhich provides a different benefit to a target:
Half Cover (+2 bonus to AC and Dexterity saving throws). Three-Quarters Cover (•S bonus to AC and Dexterity saving throws), and Total Cover (can't be targeted directly). If behind more than one degree of cover, a target benefits only from the most pro• tective degree. Seealso chapter I ("Combat").

CRAWLING
While you're crawling, each foot of movement costs I extra foot (2 extra feet in Difficult Terrain). See also "'Speed."

CREATURE
Any being in the game, including a player"s charac-ter, is a creature. See also "Creature Type."'

CREATURE TYPE
Every creature, including every player character, has a tag in the rules that identifies the type of crea• ture it is. Most player characters are of the Human• oid type.These are the game's creature types:
you roll extra dice for the attack's damage against the target. Roll all of the attack's damage dice twice and add them together. Then add any relevant mod-ifiers. See also chapter I ("Damage and Healing'').

CUBŁ [AREA OF EFFECT]
A Cube is an area of effect that extends in straight lines from a point of origin located anywhere on a face of the Cube. The effect that creates a Cube specifies its size, which is the length of each side.
A Cube's point of origin isn't included in the area of effect unless its creator decides otherwise.

CURSES
Some game effects curse a creature or an object. The effect that confers a curse defines what the curse does. Curses can be removed by the Remove Curse and Greater Restoration spells or other magic that explicitly ends curses.

CYLINDER [AREA OF EFFECT)
A Cylinder is an area of effect that extends in straight lines from a point of origin located at the center of the circular top or bottom of the Cylinder. The effect that creates a Cylinder specifies the ra-dius of the Cylinder's base and the Cylinder's height.
A Cylindel"s point of origin is included in the area of effect.

D20 TEST
D20 Tests encompass the three main d20 rolls of the game: ability checks, attack rolls, and saving throws. If something in the game affects D20 Tests, it affects all three of these rolls. The OM determines whether a 020 Test is warranted in a given circum· stance. See alsochapter I ("D20 Tests").

DAMAGE
Aberration Beast Celestial Construct Dragon
Elemental	Monstrosity
Fey	Ooze
Fiend	Plant
Giant	Undead
Humanoid
Damage represents harm that causes a creature or an object to lose Hit Points.

DAMAGE ROLL
A damage roll is a die roll, adjusted by any applica·
The types don't have rules themselves. but some rules in the game affect creatures of certain types in different ways.

CRITICAL HIT
1f you roll a 20 011 the d20 for an attack roll, you score a Critical Hit, and the attack hits regardless of any modifiers or the target's AC. A Critical Hit lets
ble modifiers, that deals damage to a target. Seealso
chapter I ("Damage and Healing").

DAMAGE THRESHOLD
A creature or an object that has a damage thresh· old has Immunity to all damage unless it takes an amount of damage from a single attack or effect equal to or greater than its damage threshold, in

364	APPENDIX O I RULES GLOSSARY
which case it takes that entire instance of dam-age. Any damage that fails to meet or exceed the damage threshold is superficial and doesn't reduce Hit Points. For example, if an object has a damage threshold of10. the object takes no damage if 9 damage is dealt to it, since that damage fails to exceed the threshold. If the same object is dealt 11 damage, it takes all of that damage.

DAMAGE TYPES
Attacks and other harmful effects deal different types of damage. Damage types have no rules of their own, but other rules,such as Resistance, rely on the types. The Damage Types table offers exam-ples to help a OM assign a type to a new effect.

DA MACE TYPES
Type	Examples
Acid	Corrosive liquids, digestive enzymes Bludgeoning Blunt objects, constriction, falling Cold	 Freezing water, icy blasts
Fire	Flames, unbearable heat
30 feet is reduced to 15feet, you can move up to 30 feet this turn if you Dash.
If you have a specialspeed, such as a Fly Speed or Swim Speed, you can use that speed instead of your Speed when you take this action. You choose which speed to use each time you take it. See also "Speed."

DEAD
Adead creature has no Hit Points and can't regain them unless it is first revived by magic such as the Raise Dead or Revivify spell. When such a spell is cast, the spirit knows who is casting it and can re-fuse.The spirit of a dead creature has left the body and departed for the Outer Planes, and reviving the creature requires calling the spirit back.
If the creature returns to life, the revival effect determines the creature's current Hit Points. Unless otherwise stated, the creature returns to life with any conditions, magical contagions, or curses that were affecting it at death if the durations of those effects are stilI ongoing. If the creature died with any Exhaustion levels, it returns with 1 fewer level. lf the creature had Attunement to one or more
Force Lightning Necrotic Piercing Poison Psychic Radiant Slashing Thunder


DARKNESS
Pure magical energy Electricity
Life-draining energy Fangs, puncturing objects Toxic gas, venom
Mind-rending energy
Holy energy, searing radiation Claws, cutting objects Concussive sound
magic items, it is no longer attuned to them.

DEAFENED [CONDITION]
While you have the Deafened condition, you experi-ence the following effect.
Can't Hear. You ca.n't hear and automatically fail anyability check that requires hearing.

DEATH SAVING THROW
A player character must make a Death Saving Throw (also called a Death Save) if they start their turn with O Hit Points. See also chapter1 ("Damage and Healing").
An area of Darkness is Heavily Obscured. Seealso "Heavily Obscured" and chapter 1 ("Exploration").

DARKVlSION
If you have Darkvision, you can see in Dim Light within a specified range as ifit were Bright Light and in Darkness within that range as if it were Dim Light. You discern colors in that Darkness only as shades of gray.See also chapter I ("Exploration").

DASH [ACTION]
When you take the Dash action, you gain extra movement for the current turn.Theincrease equals your Speed after applying any modifiers. With a Speed of 30 feet, for example, you can move up to 60 feet on your turn if you Dash. If your Speed of


DEHYDRATION [HAZARD]
A creature requires an amount of water per day based on its size. as shown in the Water Needs per Day table. A creature that drinks less than half the required water for a day gains I Exhaustion level at the day's end. Exhaustion caused by dehydra-tion can't be removed until the creature drinks the full amount of water required for a day. Seealso
..Exhaustion."

WATER NEEDS PER DAY

Size	Water	Size	Water
Tiny	1/4 gallon	Large	4 gallons
Small	1 gallon	Huge	16 gallons
Medium	1 gallon	Gargantuan	64 gallons
APPENDIX CI RULES GLOSSARY	365












DrFFICULT TERRAIN
If a space is Difficult Terrain, every foot of move-ment in that space costs I extra foot. For example, moving S feet through Difficult Terrain costs JO feet of movement. Difficult Terrain isn't cumulative; ei-ther a space is Difficult Terrain or it isn't.
Aspace is Difficult Terrain if the space contains any of the follo,ving or something similar:
    • A creature that isn't Tiny or your ally
    • Furniture that is sized for creatures of your size or larger
    • Heavy snow, ice, rubble, or undergrowth
    • Liquid that's between shin- and waist-deep
    • A narrow opening sized for a creature one size smaller than you
    • A slope of 20 degrees or more

DIFFICULTY CLASS
A Difficulty Class (DC) is the target number for an ability check or a saving throw. Seealso chapter 1 ("D20 Tests").

DIM LIGHT
An area with Dim Light is Lightly Obscured. See also
"Lightly Obscured" and chapter1 ("Exploration"),

DISADVANTAGE
If you have Disadvantage on a 020 Test, roll two d20s and use the lower roll. A roll can't be affected by more than one Disadvantage, and Advantage and Disadvantage on the same roll cancel each other.See also chapter 1 ("D20 Tests").

DISENGAGE (AcTroN]
If you take the Disengage action, your movement doesn't provoke Opportunity Attacks for the rest of the current turn.

DODGE (ACTION)
If you take the Dodge action, you gain the following benefits: until the start of your next turn, anyattack roll made against you has Disadvantage if you can










see the attacker, and you make Dexterity saving throws with Advantage.
You lose these benefits if you have the Incapaci-tated condition or if your Speed is 0.

EMANATION (AREA OF EFFECT]
An Emanation is an area of effect that extends in straight lines from a creature or an object in all directions. The effect that creates an Emanation specifies the distance it extends.
An Emanation moves with the creature or object that is its origin unless it is an instantaneous or a stationary effect.
An Emanation's origin (creature or object) isn't in-cluded in the area of effect unless its creator decides otherwise.

ENCOUNTER
An encounter is a scene in an adventure that is part of at least one of the game's three pillars: social in-teraction, exploration, or combat. See alsochapter l ("Social Interaction," "Exploration," and ''Combat").

ENEMY
A creature is your enemy if it fights against you in combat. actively works to harm you. or is desig-nated as your enemy by the rules or OM.

EXHAUSTION [CONDITION]
While you have the Exhaustion condition, you experience the followingeffects.
Exhaustion Levels. This condition is cumulative. Each time you receive it, you gain I Exhaustion level. You die if your Exhaustion level is 6.
D20 Tests Affected. When you make a D20 Test, the roll is reduced by 2 times your Exhaustion level.
Speed Reduced. Your Speed is reduced by a num-ber of feet equal to S times your Exhaustion level.
Removing Exhaustion Levels. Finishing a Long Rest removes I of your Exhaustion levels. When your Exhaustion level reaches 0, the condition ends.

EXPERIENCE POINTS
As they overcome chaHenges and complete ad-ventures, characters earn Experience Points (XP),

366	APl'ŁNDIX CI RULŁS GLOSSARY


which are awarded by the Dungeon Master. When a character's XP total crosses certain thresholds. the character's level increases. The Dungeon Master's Guide provides guidance on awarding XP.See also chapter 2 ("Level Advancement").


EXPERTISE
Expertise is a feature that enhances your use of a skill proficiency. When you make an ability check with a skill proficiency in which you have Expertise, your Proficiency Bonus is doubled for that check unless the bonus is doubled by another feature.
Lf you gain Expertise, you gain it in one skill in which you have proficiency. You can't have Exper-tise in the same skill proficiency more than once.
See also chapter I ("Proficiency").

FALLING [HAZARD]
A creature that falls takes ld6 Bludgeoning dam-age at the end of the fall for every 10 feet it fell, to a maximum of 20d6. When the creature lands, it has the Prone condition unless it avoids takingany damage from the fall.
A creature that falls into water or another liquid can use its Reaction to make a DC 15 Strength (Ath· letics) or Dexterity (Acrobatics) check to hit the surface head or feet first. On a successful check, any damage resulting from the fall is halved.

FLYING
A variety of effects allow a creature to fly. While flying, you fall if you have the Incapacitated or Prone condition or your Fly Speed is reduced to 0. You canstay aloft in those circumstances if you can hover. See also "Falling" and "Fly Speed.''

FLY SPEED
A Fly Speed can be used to travel through the air. While you have a Fly Speed, you can stay aloft until you land, fall, or die. See also "Flying" and "Speed."

FRIENDLY [ATTITUDE]
A Friendly creature views you favorably. You have Advantage on an ability check to influence a Friendly creature. See also "Influence."

FRIGHTENED [CONOITlON)
While you have the Frightened condition, you expe-rience the following effects.
Ability Checks and Attacks Affected. You have Dis-advantage on ability checks and attack rolls while the source of fear is within line of sight.
Can't Approach. You can't willingly move closer to the source of fear.

GRAPPLED [CONDITION]
While you have the Grappled condition, you experi-ence the following effects.
Speed 0. Your Speed is 0 and can't increase.
Attacks Affected. You have Disadvantage on attack rolls against any target other than the grappler.
Movable. The grappler can drag or carry you when it moves, but every foot of moveme1lt costs it I extra foot unless you are Tiny or two or more sizes smaller than it.

GRAPPLING
A creature can grapple another creature. Charac-ters typically grapple by usingan Unarmed Strike. Many monsters bavespecial attacks that allow them to quickly grapple prey. However a grapple is initiated. it follows these rules. See also "Unarmed Strike" and "Grappled.''
Grappled Condition. Successfully gr·appling a crea-ture gives it the Grappled condition.
One Grapple per Hand. A creature must have a hand free to grapple another creature. Some stat bloc.ks and game effects allow a creature to grap-ple usinga tentacle. a maw, or another body part. Whatever part a grappler uses, it can grapple only one creature at a time with that part, and the grap-pler can't use that part to target another creature unless it ends the grapple.
Escapinga Grapple. A Grappled creature can use its action to make a Strength (Athletics) or Dexter-ity (Acrobatics) check against the grapple's escape DC, ending the condition on itself on a success. The condition also ends if the grappler has the Incapaci-tated condition or if the distance between the Grap-pled target and the grappler exceeds the grapple's range.
APPENDIX CI RULES GLOSSARY	367

HAZARD
A hazard is an environmental danger. See also "Burning," "Dehydration,"''Falling," "Malnutrition,'' and "Suffocation."

HEALING
Healing is how you regain Hit Points. See also chap-ter l ("Damage and Healing").

HEAVILY OBSCURED
You have the Blinded condition while trying to see something in a Heavily Obscured space. See also "Blinded," "Darkness," and chapter I ("Exploration").

HELP [ACTION]
When you take the Help action, you do one of the following.
Assist an Ability Check. Choose one of your skill or tool proficiencies and one ally who is near
enough for you to assist vei·bally or physically when they make an ability check. That ally has Advantage on the next abilitycheck they make with the chosen skill or tool. This benefit expires if the ally doesn't use it before the start of your next turn. The OM has final say on whether your assistance is possible.
Assist an Attack Roll. You momentarily distract an enemy within 5 feet of you, giving Advantage to
the next attack roll by one of your allies against that enemy.This benefit expires at the start of your next turn.

HEROIC INSPIRATION
If you (a player character) have Heroic Inspiration, you can expend it to reroll any die immediately aA:er rolling it, and you must use the new roll.
If you gain Heroic Inspiration but already have it. it's lost unless you give it to a player character who lacks it.

HIDE [ACTION]
With the Hide action, you try to conceal yourself. To do so, you must succeed on a DC15 Dexterity (Stealth) check while you're Heavily Obscured or behind Three-Quarters Cover or Total Cover, and you must be out of any enemy's line of sight; if you can see a creature, you can discern whether it can see you.
On a successful check, you have the Invisible con-dition. Make note of your check's total, which is the DC for a creature to find you with a Wisdom (Per-ception) check.
The condition ends on you immediately aA:er any of the following occurs: you make a sound louder than a whisper, an enemy finds you, you make
an attack roll, or you cast a spell with a Verbal component.

HIGH JUMP
When you make a High Jump, you leap into the air a number of feet equal to 3 plus your Strength modifier (minimum of O feet) if you move at least
IO feet on foot immediately before the jump. When you make a standing High jump, you can jump only half that distance. Either way, each foot of the jump costs a foot of movement.
You can extend your arms half your height above yourself during the jump. Thus, you can reach a dis-tance equal to the height of the jump plus 1˝ times your height.

HIT POINT DICE
Hit Point Dice, or Hit Dice for short, help deter-mine a player character's Hit Point maximum, as explained in chapter 2. Most monsters also have Hit Dice. A creature can spend Hit Dice duringa Short Rest to regain Hit Points. See a/so "Short Rest."

HIT POINTS
Hit Points (HP) are a measure of how difficult it is to kill or destroy a creature or an object. Damage reduces Hit Points, and healing restores them. You can't have more Hit Points than your Hit Point maximum, and you can't have Jess than 0. See also "Breaking Objects" and chapter 1 ("Damage and Healing").

HOST1LE [ATTITUDE]
A Hostile creature views you unfavorably. You have Disadvantage on an ability check to influence a Hos-tile creature. See a/so "Influence."

HOVER
Some creatures can hover, as noted in their stat blocks, and some spells and other effects grant the ability to hover. Hovering while Hying prevents you from falling in certain circumstances. Seealso "Flying."


368	A PPE!IIDIX C I RU LES GLOSSARY
ILLUSIONS
Spells and other effects sometimes create magical ii• lusions.Such an effect defines what the illusion does and which senses or mental faculties it deceives.
If an illusion manifests in space, the illusion is insubstantial and weightless, yet it seems to be af-fected by the environment as if the illusion were real unless the effect that created it specifies oth• erwise. For example, a visual illusion ofa creature casts shadows and reflections, and wind appears to affect the illusory creature. Similarly, an audible illusion echoes in an echoey space.

IMMUNITY
If you have Immunity to a damage type or a condi· tion. it doesn't affect you in any way.


lMPROVlSED WEAPONS
An improvised weapon is an object wielded as a makeshift weapon, such as broken glass, a table leg, or a frying pan. A Simple or Martial weapon also counts as an improvised weapon if it's wielded in
a way contrary to its design: if you use a Ranged weapon to make a melee attack or throw a Me-lee weapon that lacks the Thrown property, the
weapon counts as an improvised weapon. An impro-vised weapon follows the rules below.
Proficiency. Don't add your Proficiency Bonus to attack rolls with an improvised weapon.
Damage. On a hit, the weapon deals ld4 damage of a type the DM thinks is appropriate for the object.
Range. lf you throw the weapon, it has a normal range of 20 feet and a long range of 60 feet.
Weapon Equivalents. lf an improvised weapon
INDIFFERENT [ATTITUDE]
An Indifferent creature has no desire to help or binder you. Indifferent is the default attitude of a monster. See also "Influence."


INFLUENCE: [ACTION]
With the lnfluence action, you urge a monster to do something. Describe or roleplay how you're communicating with the monster. Are you trying to deceive, intimidate, amuse, or gently persuade? The DM then determines whether the monster feels willing. unwilling. or hesitant due to your interac· tion: this determination establishes whether an abil• ity check is necessary, as explained below.
Willing. If your urging aligns with the monster's desires, no abilitycheck is necessary; the monster fulfills your request in a way it prefers.
Unwilling. If your urging is repugnant to the mon-ster or counter to its alignment, no ability check is necessary; it doesn't comply.
Hesitant. If you urge the monster to do something that it is hesitant to do, you must make an ability check, which is affected by the monster's attitude: Indifferent, Friendly, or Hostile, each of which is defined in this glossary. The lnAuence Checks ta· ble suggests which ability check to make based on bow you're interacting with the monster. The OM chooses the cbeck, which has a default DC equal to 15 or the monster's Intelligence score, whichever is higher. On a successful check, the monster does as urged. On a failed check, you must wait 24 bours (or a duration set by the OM) before urging it in the same way again.
INFLUENCE CHECKS
resembles a Simple or Martial weapon, the OM may say it functions as that weapon and uses that weap-on's rules. For example, the OM could treat a table legas a Club.

INCAPACITATED [CONDITION]
While you have the Incapacitated condition, you experience the followingeffects.
Ability Check Charisma (Deception)

Charisma (Intimidation) Charisma (Performance) Charisma (Persuasion)
Interaction Deceiving a monster that understands you
Intimidating a monster Amusing a monster
Persuading a monster that understands you
Inactive. You can't take any action, Bonus Action, or Reaction.
No Concentration. Your Concentration is broken.
Speechless. You can't speak.
Surprised. If you're incapacitated when you roll Initiative, you have Disadvantage on the roll.
Wisdom (Animal Handling) Gently coaxing a Beast
or Monstrosity


lNITIATIVE:
Initiative determines the order of turns during com• bat. The combat rules in chapter I explain bow to roll Initiative.
Sometimes a OM migbt have combatants use their lnjtiative scores instead of rolling Initiative. Your Initiative score equals 10 plus your Dexterity
APPENDIX C I RULES GLOSSARY	369










modifier. If you have Advantage on Initiative rolls, increase your Initiative score by 5. If you have Dis-advantage on those rolls, decrease that score by 5. See also chapter I ("Combat").

lNVISI BLE [CONDITION)
Whlle you have the Invisible condition, you experi-ence the following effects.
Surprise. If you're Invisible when you roll Initia-tive, you have Advantage on the roll.
Concealed. You aren't affected by any effect that requires its target to beseen unless the effect's cre-ator can somehow see you. Any equipment you are wearing or carrying is also concealed.
Attacks Affected. Attack rolls against you have Disadvantage, and your attack rolls have Advan-tage. If a creature can somehow see you, you don't gain this benefit against that creature.

JUMPING
When you jump, you make either a LongJump (hor-izontal} or a High Jump (vertical). See also "Long Jump'' and "High Jump."

KNOCKING OUT A CREATURE
When you would reduce a creature to O Hit Points with a melee attack, you can instead reduce the creature to 1 Hit Point. The creature then has the Unconscious condition and starts a Short Rest.
The creature remains Unconscious until it regains any Hit Points or until someone uses an action to administer first aid to it, which requires a successful DC10 Wisdom (Medicine) check.

LIGHTLY OBSCURED
You have Disadvantage on Wisdom (Percep-tion) checks to see something in a Lightly Ob-scured space. See also "Dim Light" and chapter1 ("Exploration").

LINE [AREA OF EFFECT)
A Line is an area of effect that extends from a point of origin in a straight path along its length and cov-ers an area defined by its width. The effect that cre-atesa Linespecifies its length and width.









A Line's point of origin isn't included in the area of effect unless its creator decides otherwise.


LONG JUMP
When you make a LongJump, you leap horizontally a number of feet up to your Strength score if you move at least 10 feet immediately before the jump. When you make a standing LongJump, you can leap only half that distance. Either way, each foot you jump costs a foot of movement.
If you land in Difficult Terrain. you must succeed on a DC 10 Dexterity (Acrobatics) check or have the Prone condition.
This LongJump rule assumes that the height of the jump doesn't matter,such as a jump across a stream or chasm. At your DM's option, you must succeed on a DC 10 Strength (Athletics) check to clear a low obstacle (no taller than a quarter of the jump's distance), such as a hedge or low wall Other· wise. you hit the obstacle.

LONG REST
A Long Rest is a period of extended downtime-at least 8 hours-available to any creature. During a Long Rest, you sleep for at least 6 hours and per-form no more than 2 hours of light activity, such as reading, talking, eating, or standing ,_.atch.
Duringsleep, you have the Unconscious condition. After you finish a Long Rest, you must wait at least 16 hours before starting another one.
Benefits of the Rest. To start a Long Rest, you must have at least 1 Hit Point. When you finish the rest, you gain the following benefits:
Regain AUHP. You regain all lost Hit Points and all spent Hit Point Dice. If your Hit Point maximum was reduced, it returns to normal.
Ability Scores Restored. If any of your ability scores were reduced, they return to normal.
Exhaustion Reduced. If you have the Exhaustion condition, its level decreases by 1.
Special Feature. Some features are recharged by a Long Rest. If you have such a feature, it recharges in the wayspecified in its description.
Interrupting the Rest. A Long Rest is stopped by the following interruptions:
    • Rolling Initiative
    • Casting a spell other than a cantrip

370	APPENDIX CI RULES GLOSSARY


    • Takingany damage
    • 1 hour of walking or other physical exertion
If you rested at least 1 hour before the interruption, you gain the benefits ofa Short Rest.See also "Short Rest."
You can resume a Long Rest immediately aA:er an interruption. ff you do so, the rest requires I addi· tional hour per interruption to finish.

MAGIC [ACTION]
When you take the Magic action. you cast a spell that has a casting time of an action or use a feature or magic item that requires a Magic action to be activated.
If you cast a spell that has a casting time oft min· ute or longer, you must take the Magic action on each turn of that casting, and you must maintain Concentration while you do so. If your Concentra-tion is broken, the spell fails, but you don't expend a spell slot. See also "Concentration."

MAGICAL EFFECT
An effect is magical if it is created by a spell, a magic item, or a phenomenon that a rule labels as magical.

MALNUTRITION [HAZARD]
A creature needs an amount of food per day based on its size, as shown in the Food Needs per Day ta· ble. A creature that eats but consumes less than half the required food for a day must succeed on a DC 10 Constitution saving throw or gain I Exhaustion level at the day's end. A creature that eats nothing for 5 days automatically gains1 Exhaustion level at the end of the fiA:h day as well as an additional level at the end of each subsequent day without food.
Exhaustion caused by malnutrition can't be re• moved until the creature eats the full amount of food required for a day. See also ''Exhaustion."
Fooo NEEDS PER DAY

Size	Food	Size	Food
Tiny	1/4 pound	Large	4 pounds
Small	1 pound	Huge	16 pounds
Medium	1 pound	Gargantuan	64 pounds

MONSTER
A monster is a creature controlled by the DM, even if the creature is benevolent. See also"Creature" and "NPC."

NON PLAYER CHARACTER
A nonplayer character (NPC) is a monster that has a personal name and a distinct personality. See also "Monster."


OBJECT
An object is a nonliving, distinct thing. Composite things. like buildings, comprise more than one ob-ject. See also "Breaking Objects."

OCCUPIED SPACE
A space is occupied if a creature is in it or if it is completely filled by objects.

OPPORTUNITY ATTACKS
You can make an Opportunity Attack when a crea-ture that you can see leaves your reach using its action, its Bonus Action, its Reaction, or one of its speeds.To make the Opportunity Attack, take a Re• action to make one melee attack with a weapon or an Unarmed Strike against the provoking creature. The attack occurs right before the creature leaves your reach. See also chapter I ("Combat").

PARALYZED [CONDITION]
While you have the Paralyzed condition, you expe-rience the following effects.
Incapacitated.You have the Incapacitated condition.
Speed 0. Your Speed is 0 and can't increase.
Saving Throws Affected. You automatically fail Strength and Dexterity saving throws.
Attack$ Affected. Attack rolls against you have Advantage.
Automatic Critical Hits. Anyattack roll that hits you is a Critical Hit if the attacker is within S feet of you.
APPENDIX CI RULES GLOSSARY	371
PASSIVE PERCEPTION
Passive Perception is a score that reflects a crea-ture's general awareness of itssurroundings. The OM uses this score when determining whether a creature notices something without consciously making a Wisdom (Perception) check.
A creature's Passive Perception equals JO plus the creature's Wisdom (Pe,·ception) check bonus. If the creature has Advantage on such checks, increase the score by 5. If the creature has Disadvantage on them, decrease the score by 5. For example, a level I character with a Wisdom of15 and proficiency
in Perception has a Passive Perception of 14 (10 +
2 + 2). If that character has Advantage on Wisdom (Perception) checks, the score becomes 19.

PER DAY
If a rule says you can use something a certain num-ber of times per day, that means you must finish a Long Rest to use it again aA:er you run out of uses.

P:ET,RIFIED [CONDlTION)
While you have the Petrified condition, you experi-ence the following effects.
Turned to Inanimate Substance. You are trans· formed, along with any nonmagical objects you are wearing and carrying, into a solid inanimate sub-stance (usually stone). Your weight increases by a factor of ten, and you cease aging.
Incapacitated. You have the Incapacitated condition.
Speed 0. Your Speed is Oand can't increase.
Attacks Affected. Attack rolls against you have Advantage.
Saving Throws Affected. You automatically fail Strength and Dexterity saving throws.
Resist Damage. You have Resistance to all damage.
Poison Immunity. You have Immunity to the Poi-soned condition.

PLAYER CHARACT.ER
A player character is a character controlled by a player. See also chapter 2.

POISONED [CONDITION]
While you have the Poisoned condition, you experi-ence the following effect.
Ability Checks and Attacks Affected. You have Dis-advantage on attack rollsand ability checks.
POSSESSION
Some effects cause a creature to be possessed by an-other creature or eotity. A possessing effect defines how the possession operates. Possession can be pre-vented by the Protection from Łvii and Good spell and ended by the Dispel Łvii and Good spell.

PROFICl ENCY
If you have proficiency with something, you can add your Proficiency Bonus to any D20 Test you make using that thing. A creature might have proficiency in a skill or saving throw or ,vith a weapon or tool. See also chapter 1 ("Proficiency'').

PRONE [CONDITION)
While you have the Prone condition, you experi-ence the followingeffects.
Restricted Movement. Your only movement op-tions are to crawl or to spend an amount of move-ment equal to half your Speed (round down) to right yourself and thereby end the condition. If your
Speed is 0, you can't right yourself.
Attacks Affected. You have Disadvantage on attack rolls. An attack roll against you has Advantage if
the attacker is within 5 feet of you. Otherwise, that attack roll has Disadvantage.

REACTION
A Reaction is a special action taken in response to a trigger defined in the Reaction's description. You can take a Reaction on another creature's turn, and
if you take it on your turn, you can do so even if you also take an action, a Bonus Action, or both. Once you take a Reaction, you can't take another one un-til the start of your next turn. The Opportunity At-tack is a Reaction available to all creatures. See also "Opportunity Attacks" and chapter l ("Actions").

READY [ACTION)
You take the Ready action to wait for a particular circumstance before you act.To do so, you take this action on your turn, which lets you act by takinga Reaction before the start of your next turn.
First, you decide what perceivable circumstance will trigger your Reaction. Then, you choose the action you will take in response to that trigger, or you choose to move up to your Speed in response to it. Examples include "If the cultist steps on the trapdoor, I'll pull the lever that opens it," and "If the zombie steps next to me, I move away."




372	APPENDIX CI RULES GLOSSARY
When the trigger occurs, you can either take your Reaction right after the trigger finishes or ignore the trigger.
When you Ready a spell, you cast it as normal (ex-pending any resources used to cast it) but hold its energy, which you release with your Reaction when the trigger occurs. To be readied, a spell must have a casting time of an action, and holding on to the spell's magic requires Concentration, which you can maintain up to the start of your next turn. ff your Concentration is broken, the spell dissipates with· out takingeffect.
rolling. The result of a save is detailed in the effect that a!lowed it. If a target is forced to make a save and lacks the ability score used by it, the target au• tomatically fails. See also chapter 1 ("020 Tests").

SEARCH [ACTION]
When you take the Search action, you make a Wis• dom check to discern something that isn't obvious. The Search tablesuggests which skills are applica-ble when you take this action, depending on what you're trying to detect.


RESISTANCE
If you have Resistance to a damage type, damage of that type is halved against you (round down). Resis-tance is applied only once to an instance of damage. Seealso chapter1 ("Damage and Healing").

RESTRAINED [CONDITION]
SEARCH
Skill Insight Medicine Perception Survival

Thing to Detect Creature's state of mind
Creature's ailment or cause of death Concealed creature or object
Tracks or food
While you have the Restrained condjtion, you expe-rience the following effects.
Speed 0. Your Speed is O and can't increase.
Attacks Affected. Attack rolls against you have Advantage, and your attack rolls have Disadvantage.
Saving Throws Affected. You have Disadvantage on Dexterity saving throws.

RITUAL
If you have a spell prepared that has the Ritual tag, you can cast that spell as a Ritual. The Ritual ver· sion of a spell takes10 minutes longer to cast than normal. It also doesn't expend a spell slot, which means the ritual version of a spell can't be cast at a higher level.See also chapter 7.

ROUND DOWN
Whenever you divide or multiply a number in the game, round down if you end up with a fraction, even if the fraction is one-half or greater. Some rules make an exception and tell you to round up.

SAVE
Save is another name for a saving throw. See also
"Saving Throw."

SAVING ThROW
A saving throw-also called a save-represents an attempt to avoid or resist a threat. You normally make a saving throw only when a rule requires you to do so, but you can decide to fail the save ,vithout
SHAPE-SHIFTING
If an effect, such as Wild Shape or the Polymorpl, spell, lets youshape-shift, its description specifies what happens to you. Unless that description says otherwise, any ongoing effects on you-conditions, spells, curses, and the like-carry over from one form to the other. You revert to your true form if you die.

SHORT REST
AShort Rest is a I-hour period of downtime, during which a creature does nothing more strenuous than reading, talking, eating, or standing watch. To start a Short Rest, you must have at least I Hit Point.
Benefits of the Rest. When you finish the rest, you gain the following benefits:
Spend Hit Point Dice. You can spend one or more of your Hit Point Dice to regain Hit Points. For each Hit Point Die you spend in this way, roll the die and add your Constitution modifier to it. You regain Hit Points equal to the total (minimum of I Hit Point). You can decide to spend an additional Hit Point Die alter each roll.
Special Feature. Some features are recharged by a Short Rest.If you have such a feature, it recharges in the wayspecified in its description.
Interrupting the Rest. A Short Rest is stopped by the following interruptions:
    • Rolling Initiative
    • Casting a spell other than a cantrip
    • Taking any damage
An interrupted Short Rest confers no benefits.
APPENDIX CI RULES CLOSSARY	373












SIMULTANEOUS EFFECTS
If h\lO or more things happen at the same time on a turn. the person at the game table-player or OM-whose turn it is decides the order in which those things happen. For example, if two effects occur at the start of a player character's turn, the player de-cides which of the effects happens first.

SIZE
A creature or an object belongs to a size category: Tiny, Small, Medium, Large, Huge, or Gargantuan. A creature's size determines how much space the creature occupies in combat. An object's size affects its Hit Points. See also "Breaking Objects" and chap-ter I ("Combat").

SKILL
Askill is an area of specialization associated with an abilitycheck. If you have proficiency in a skill, you can add your Proficiency Bonus when you make an ability check associated with that skill. See also chapter I ("Proficiency").

SPEED
A creature has a Speed, which is the distance in feet the creature can cover when it moves on its turn.
Seealso "Climbing." "Crawling." "Flying." "Jumping," "Swimming" and chapter I ("Combat").
Sp,!cial Speeds. Some creatures have special speeds,such as a Burrow Speed, Climb Speed, Fly Speed, or Swim Speed, each of which is defined
in this glossary. If you have more than one speed, choose which one to use when you move: you can switch between the speeds during your move.
Whenever you switch, subtract the distance already moved from the new speed,The result determines how much farther you can move. If the result is O or less, you can't use the new speed during the current move. For example. if you have a Speed of 30 and a Fly Speed of 40, you could Ay 10 feet, walk 10 feet, and leap into the air to Ay 20 feet more.
Changes to Your Speeds. If an effect increases or decreases your Speed for a time, any special speed you have increases or decreases by an equal amount










for the same duration. For example, if your Speed is reduced to O and you have a Climb Speed, your Climb Speed is also reduced to 0. Similarly, if your Speed is halved and you have a FlySpeed, your Fly Speed is also halved.

SPELL
A spell is a magical effect that has the characteris-tics described in chapter 7.

SPELL ATTACK
A spell attack is an attack roll made as part of a spell or another magical effect.See alsochapter 7 ("Cast-ing Spells"),

SPELLCASTINO Focus
A Spellcasting Focus is an object that certain crea-tures can use in place of a spell's Material compo· nents if those materials aren't consumed by the spell and don't have a cost specified. Some classes allow its members to use certain types of Spellcasting Fo-cuses. See also chapter 7 ("Casting Spells").

SPHERE [AREA OF EFFECT]
A Sphere is an area of effect that extends in straight lines from a point of origin out ward in all direc-tions.The effect that creates a Sphere specifies the distance it extends as the radius of the Sphere.
A Sphere's point of origin is included in the Sphere's area of effect.

STABLE
A creature is Stable ifit has O Hit Points but isn't required to make Death Saving Throws. See also chapter I (''Damage and Healing'').

STAT BLOCK
A stat block contains the game statistics of a mon-ster. Each stat block includes the following informa-tion presented ancr the monster's name.
Size. A monster is Tiny, Small, Medium, Large, Huge, or Gargantuan. See also "Size."




374	APPENDIX CI RULES GLOSSARY



Creature Type.This entry notes the Family of be-ings a monster belongs to, along with any descrip-tive tags.See also "Creature Type."
Alignment. An alignment is suggested for the monster, with the DM determining its actual align-ment. See also "Alignment."
AC, Initiative, and HP.These entries give the mon-ster's Armor Class. Initiative. and Hit Points. which are detailed in chapter l. In parentheses after the Hit Points, the monster's Hit Point Dice are pro-vided, along with the contribution of its Constitu· tion, if any, to its Hit Points. Pollowing the Initiative modifier is an Initiative score.Some creatures that are created by magic lack Hit Dice and Initiative information.
Speed. Here the monster's Speed is provided, along with anyspecial speeds. See also "Burrow Speed,'' "Climb Speed," "Ply Speed," and "Swim Speed."
Ability Scores. A table provides the monster's abil-ity scores, modifiers, and saving throw modifiers, all of which are detailed in chapter 1.
Skills.This entry lists the monster's skill proflcien· cies, if any. See also chapter I ("Proficiency").
Resistances and Vulnerabilities. These entries list the monster's Resistances and Vulnerabilities, if any. See also "Resistance" and "Vulnerability."
Immunities. This section lists the monster's damage and condition Immunities, if any. See also "Immunity."
Gear. If the monster has any equipment that can be given away or retrieved, it's listed in this entry.
Senses.This entry lists the monster's special senses, such as Darkvision, and its Passive Percep· tion. See also "Passive Perception."
Languages. This entry lists any languages the monster knows.
CR. Challenge Rating summarizes the threat a monster poses and is detailed in the Monster Manual.
Reactions. If the monster can take special Reac-tions, those are listed in this section.
Attack Notation. The entry for a monster's attack starts by identifying whether the attack is a melee or a ranged attack and then provides the attack roll's bonus, its reach or range, and what happens on a hit. An attack is against one target unless its entry says otherwise.
Saving Throw Effect Notation. If an effect forces a saving throw, the effect's entry starts by identifying the kind of saving throw required and then pro· vides the save's DC, a description of which creatures must make the save, and what happens on a failed
or a successful save.
Damage Notation. A stat block usually provides both a static number and a die expression for each instance of damage. For example, an attack might deal 4 (ld4 + 2) damage on a hit. The DM deter-mines ,vhether you use the static number or the die expression in parentheses; you don't use both.

STU DY [ACTION]
When you take the Study action, you make an Intel-ligence check to study your memory, a book, a clue, or another source of knowledge and call to mind an important piece of information about it.
The Areas of Knowledge table suggests which skills are applicable to various areas of knowledge.

AREAS OF KNOWLEDGE
Skill	Areas
Arcana	Spells, magic items, eldritch symbols, magical traditions, planes ofexis-tence, and certain creatures (Aberra-tions, Constructs, Elementals, Fey, and Monstrosities)
The Experience Points characters receive for de-featinga monster and its Proficiency Bonus follow. Some creatures that are created by magic have no
History
Historic events and people, ancient civilizations, wars, and certain crea-tures (Giants and Humanoids)
CR. See also"Challenge Rating" and "Experience
Points."
Investigation Traps, ciphers, riddles, and gadgetry
Traits. The monster's traits, if any, are features that are active at all times or in certain situations. Actions. The monster can take these actions in addition to those detailed in thisglossary. See also
chapter I ("Actions").
Bonus Actions. If the monster has.Bonus Action options, they are listed in this section.
Nature


Religion
Terrain, Aora, weather, and certain creatures (Beasts, Dragons, Oozes, and Plants)
Deities, religious hierarchies and rites, holysymbols, cults, and certain crea-tures (Celestials, Fiends, and Undead)
APPENDIX CI RULES GLOSSARY	375
STUNNED [CONDITION]
While you have the Stunned condition, you experi-ence the followingeffects.
Incapacitated. You have the Incapacitated condition.
Saving Throws Affected. You automatically fail
Strength and Dexterity saving throws.
Attacks Affected. Attack rotlsagainst you have Advantage.

SUFFOCATION (HAZARD]
A creature can hold its breath for a number of minutes equal to I plus its Constitution modifier (minimum of30 seconds) before suffocation begins. When a creature runs out of breath or is chok-
ing, it gains I Exhaustion level at the end of each of its turns. When a creature can breathe again, it removes all levels of Exhaustion it gained from suffocating.

SURPRISE
If a creature is caught unawares by the start of combat, that creature issurprised, which causes it to have Disadvantage on its Initiative roll. Seealso chapter I ("Combat").

SWIMMING
While you're swimming, each foot of movement costs1 extra foot (2 extra feet in Difficult Terrain). You ignore this extra cost if you have a Swim Speed and use it toswim. At the DM's option, moving any distance in rough water might require a successful DC 15Strength (Athletics) check.

SWIM SPEED
ASwim Speed can be used to swim without expend-ing the extra movement normally associated with swimming. See also "Swimming" and "Speed."

TARGET
A target is the creature or object targeted byan attack roll, forced to make a saving throw by an effect, or selected to receive the effects of a spell or another phenomenon.
TELEPATHY
Telepathy is a magical ability that allows a creature to communicate mentally with another creature within a specified range. Unless a rule states other-wise, the contacted creature doesn't need to share a language with the telepath to understand this com-munication, but the contacted creature must be able to understand at least one language or be telepathic itself to understand.
A telepath doesn't need to see a contacted crea-ture, and the telepatb can start or end the telepathic contact at any time (no action required). Telepathic contact can't be initiated and is immediately broken if either the telepath or the other creature has the Incapacitated condition. Telepathiccontact is also broken if the contacted creature is no longer within the telepathy's range or if the telepath contacts a different creature within range.
A creature without telepathy can receive tele-pathic messages but can·t initiate a telepathic con-versation. Once a telepathic conversation starts, the non-telepath can communicate mentally to the telepath until the telepathic connection ends.

TELEPORTATION
Teleportation is a special kind of magical transpor-tation. If you teleport, you disappear and reappear elsewhere instantly, without moving through the in-tervening space. This transportation doesn't expend movement unless a rule tells you otherwise. and teleportation never provokes Opportunity Attacks.
When you teleport, all the equipment you're wearing and carrying teleports with you. If you·re touching another creature when you teleport, that creature doesn't teleport with you unless the tele-portation effect says otherwise.
If the destination space of your teleportation is occupied by another creature or blocked bya solid obstacle, you instead appear in the nearest unoccu-pied space of your choice.
The description of a teleportation effect tells you if you must see the teleportation's destination.

TEMPORARY HIT  POINTS
Temporary Hit Points are granted bycertain effects and act as a buffer against losing real Hit Points. See also chapter I ("Damage and Healing").











376	APPENDIX CI RULES GLOSSARY

TREMORSENSE
A creature with Tremorsense can pinpoint the location of creatures and moving objects within a speciAc range, provided that the creature with
Tremorsense and anything it is detecting are both in contact with the same surface (such as the ground, a wall, or a ceiling) or the same liquid.
Tremorsense can't detect creatures or objects in the air, and it doesn't count as a form of sight.

TRUESIGHT
If you have Truesight, your vision is enhanced within a speciAed range. Within that range, your vision pierces through the followfog:
Darkness. You can see in normal and magical Darkness.
Invisibility. You see creatures and objects that have the Invisible condition.
Visual (l]usions. Visual illusions appear transpar-ent to you, and you automatically succeed on sav-ing throws against them.
Transformations.You discern the true form of any creature or object you see that has been trans-formed by magic.
Ethereal Plane. You see into the Ethereal Plane. See
also appendix A ("Transitive Planes").

UNARMED STRIKE
Instead of using a weapon to make a melee attack, you can use a punch, kick, head-butt, or similar forceful blow. In game terms, this is an Unarmed Strike-a melee attack that involves you using your body to damage, grapple, or shove a target within 5 feet of you.
Whenever you use your Unarmed Strike. choose one of the following options for its effect.
Damage. You make an attack roll against the tar• get. Your bonus to the roll equals your Strength
modiAer plus your ProAciency Bonus. On a hit, tbe target takes Bludgeoning damage equal to J plus your Strength modifier.
Grapple. The target must succeed on a Strength or Dexterity saving throw (it chooses which), or it has the Grappled condition. The DC for the saving throw and any escape attempts equals 8 plus your Strength modifier and Proficiency Bonus.This grapple is possible only if the target is no more than one size larger than you and if you have a hand free to grab it. See also "Grappling."
Shove. The ta,rget must succeed on a Strength or Dexterity saving throw (it chooses which), or you either push it 5 feet away or cause it to have the Prone condition. The DC for the saving throw equals 8 plus your Strength modifier and ProA-
ciency Bonus. This shove is possible only if the tar-get is no more than onesize larger than you.

UNCONSCIOUS [CONDITION]
While you have the Unconscious condition, you ex-perience the followingeffects.
Inert. You have the Incapacitated and Prone conditions, and you drop whatever you're holding. When this condition ends, you remain Prone.
Speed 0. Your Speed is Oand can't increase.
Attacks Affected. Attack rolls against you have Advantage.
Saving Throws Affected. You automatically fail Strength and Dexterity saving throws.
Automatic Critical Hits. Any attack roll that hits you is a Critical Hit if the.attacker is within 5 feet of you.
Unaware. You're unaware of your surroundings.

UNOCCUPIED SPACE
A space is unoccupied if no creatures are in it and it isn't completely filled by objects.

UTILIZE [ACTION)
You normally interact with an object while doing something else,such as when you draw a sword as part of the Attack action. When an object requires an action for its use, you take the Utilize action.

VULNERABILITY
If you have Vulnerability to a damage type, damage of that type is doubled against you. Vulnerability is applied only once to an instance of damage. See also chapter I ("Damage and Healing").

WEAPON
Aweapon is an object that is in the Simple or Martial weapon category. See alsa chapter 6 ("Weapons").

WEAPON ATTACK
A weapon attack is an attack roll made with a weapon. See also ''Weapon."






APPENDIX CI RULES GLOSSARY	377
INDEX

Aasimar, 186	Actions table,1S	Arcane Trickster subclass,	Auranlanguage dialect,	Beast of the Sea stat
ABalanced Party sidebar,	Action Surge class	132	37	block, 124
36	feature, 91	Arcon•Vigor spell. 242	Aura of Courage class	Beast of the Skystat
A Bard's Repertoire	Actor feat, 202	Archdruid class feature,	feature, 111	block, 124
sidebar, 61	 adjust abilityscores, 38		82	Aura ofLif•spell, 244	 Beast S.nse spell, 24S abbreviations, 360	 advancement, level, 41	 Archery feat, 209	 Aura of Protection class	 Beast Shapes table, 81 Aber-rant Sorcery	Advantage, 12, 360	Archfey Patron subcla»,		featuro, 111	Beast Spellsclass feature,
subclass, 14S	adventure, 8, 360	1S9	Auro of Puri1y spell, 244	81
Aberrant Spirit stat blodc,	adventuring gear. 222	Archfey Spells table, 1S9	Auro ofVholi1y spell, 244	Bedroll, 224
322	Adventuring Gear table,	area ofeffea, 361	avoiding Opportunity	Befuddlemenl spell, 245
Aberration creature type,	223	Cone, 364	Attacks, 26	being a player,7
364	Agonizing Blast	Cube, 364	Awoktn spell, 244	being theDungeon
ability, 10	invocation, 1SS	Cylinder, 364	axes, 215	Master. 7
check.10, 360	Aid spell, 239	Emanation, 366	background,character,	Bell, 224
AbilityCheck Examples	Air, Elemental Planeo"	Line, 370	177	Bestial Spirit st-at bloctc,
table, 11	344	Sphere, 374	Backgrounds .ind Species	323
Ability D•scrlptions table,	Airborne and Waterborne	Areas of Knowledge table,	from Older Books	B•s<ow Curu spell. 246
10		Vehicles t•ble, 230		375		sidebar, 38	 Bigby's Hand spell, 246 ability modifier,10, 360	Airship, 230	Arid Land circle sp•lls	Backpack, 224	Black Bear stot block, 346
determination, 38	 Alarm spell, 239		table, 84	Badger, Giant,stat block,	 Blad• Barrierspell, 247 Ability Modifiers table, 10	Alchemist's Fire, 222	aristocratic lifestyle, 231		3S0	 Blad•Word spell, 247 ability score, 10, 360	 Alchemist's Supplies, 220	 armor, 219	Badger stat block.346	Blanke?224
adjustmem. Jg	Alert feat. 200	ArmorClass (AC), 12,	bagpipes, 221	Bies, spell, 247
and modifier. 360	alignment, 39, 360	41,361	Balanced Party, A	Blessed Strikes class
assignment, 38	ally, 361	base, 12	sidebar, 36	feature, 71
generation, 38	Aller S.lf spell, 239	calculating, 12	Ball Bearings, 224	Sligh,spell, 247
Ability Score	 always-prepared sp•lls,	 Armorof Agathysspell,	 Bont spell, 245	 Blinded condition, 361 Improvement class		235		 243	 Banishing Smite spell, 245	Blind Fighting feat, 209 feature, S3, 61, 71, 81,	Ambusher's Leap, 12S	ArmorofShadows	 Boni'shment spell, 24S	 Blinding Smile spell, 247 92, 103, 111, 120,130,	 ammunition, 222		1nv0<ation, l 55	Barbarian class. 49, 51	 Blindness/Dtof,,tssspell,
141, lSS.167	Ammunitionproperty,	Armor table, 219	Barbarian Features	248
Ability Score	213	armortraining, 219, 361	table, S2	Blindsight, 361
Improvement feat, 202	Ammunition table, 222	Amis oJHodorspell. 243	Core Barbarian Traits	Blink spell, 248
Ability Score Point Costs	Animal Friendship spell,	Arrow. 222		table, S1	Block and Tackle, 224 table, 38		239	Artisan background,178	subclasses, S4	Bloodied, 362
Ability Scores and	Animal Handling skill. 14	Artisan's Tools, 220	Bard class, 49, 59	 Blowgun, 215 Backgrounds table, 36	 Animal Messtnger spell,	 Ascendant Step		Bard features table, 60	blowgun needle. S..
Ability Scores and		240		invocation, 1SS	Core Bard Traits table,		Needle, 222 Modifiers table, 38	Animol Shopts spell, 240	Ash, Para-elemental		59	Bludgeoning damage.
Ability Scores table.10	Animort Dead spell, 240	Plane of, 344	spell list,62	36S
Abjure Foes class reature,	Animated Object stat	Assassin subclass, 13?	subclasses, 64	Blurspell, 248
111	block, 241	assign ability scores, 38	Bardic Inspiration class	Boarsta1block, 347
Abjurersubclass, 172	Animaie Objects spell,	As11al Plane, 344	feature, 59	boats, 230
Abyss, 344		240	 ASlfol Proju;lian spell, 243	 Bardic Inspirationdie, S9	Body and Mind class Abyssal language, 37	An1i//foShell spell, 241	Athlete feat, 202	barding, 229		feature, 103 AbyssalTiefllng, 196	An1imogic Field spell, 241	Athlttics skill, 14	 Bard's Repertoire. A,	Boh,222
Acheron. 344	Anlipo1hy/Sympo1hy spell,	attack, l S, 361		sidebar, 61	Bolt Case,Crossbow, 224 Acid, 222		242		action, 15. 361	Borkskin spell, 245	Bonus. Proficl•ncy. 11, 13
Acid damage, 365	 Antitoxin, 222	 makingan, 25	 Barrel, 224	 Bonus Action,1S, 362 Acid Splash spell, 239	Ape stat block, 346	 melee, 26	base AC,12	Bonus Feats at Level 20 Acolyte background, 178	 appearance. e:haracter, 38	Opportunity, 26, 371	 Basic Poison. 227		sidebar. 43 Acrobatic Movement	 Aquan language dialect,	 ranged, 26	 Basket, 22•	 Book, 22?
class feature,103	37	ranged, in close	Bat stat block, 346	Book of Shadows. S.t Pact
Acrobatics skill, 14	Arborea, 344		combat, 26	 Battleaxe, 21S		of theTome, lS7 action,1S. 360	 Arcadia, 344	spell, 238	Battle Master subclass,	Boon of Combat Prowess
Attack, 361	Arcana skill, 14	weapon.377	93	feat, 210
Dash, 36S	Arcane Apotheosis class	att1lck roll,12, 361	Btocon oJHopt spell, 24S	 Boon ofDimensional Disengage. 366		feature, 141	 Attack Roll Abilities table,	 Bear, Black, stat block,		Travel feat, 210 Dodge, 366	 Altl>ne fl"' spell, 242		12		346	Boon of Energy
Help, 368	Arcane Focus, 22?	attitude, 361	 Bear, Brown, stat block,		Resistance feat, 210 Hide,368	Arcane foe.uses ra_ble.		 Friendly. 367		347	Boon of Fate feat, 210 Influence, 369		224		Hostile, 368	Beast creature type, 364  Boon of Fortitude feat,
Magic. 371	Arcorie Cole spell, 242	Indifferent, 369	Beastlands, 344	210
Ready, 372	 Arcont Loci<spell, 242	 Attunement, 232,361	8easI M.aster subclass,	 Soon of Irresistible Search, 373	Arcane Recovery class	Auguryspell, 244		122		Offense feat, 211 Study, 375		feature, 166	 Aura Expansion class	 Beast of theLand stat	Soon of Recovery feat, Utilize, 377	 A..-cane Trickster		feature, 111		 block. 123		 211
Action, Bonvs, 362	Spellcasting table, 133

378	INDEX
Boon of Skill feat, 211	Chain. 224	Cleric Features table.	Coneof Cold spell, 253	Creo:eor DmroyWare,
Boon of Speed feat. 211	Chain Lightning spell. 249	70	Confusion spell, 253	spell, 258
Boon of Spell Recall ftat,	Chain Mail, 219	Core Cleric Traits table,	Conjure Animalsspell, 254	CreateUndeod spell, 258
211	Chain Shirt. 219		69	Conjure Barragespell, 254	Creating Spell Slots table, Boon of the Night Spirit	Challenge Rating (CR),	spell list, 71	Conjure Celtstial spell, 2S4	141
feat. 211	363	subclasses, 73	Conjure Elemenu.1 spell,	Creating Verbal
Boon ofTruesight feat,	Champion subclass, 96	Climber's Kit, 22S	254	Components sidtbar,
211	Channel Divinity class	climbing, 363	Conjure Fer spell, 255	237
Bottle, Class, 224	feature, 70.110	Climb Speed, 363	Conj11re Minor Elemtnrols	Creolion spell, 259
bows. 215	Chaos, Elemental, 344	Clockwork Sorcery	spell, 255	creature, 364
Branding Smite spell. See	Chaotic Evil (CE), 39	subclass, 146	Conjure Voller spell, 255	creature size, 2S
Shining Smite, 316	ChaoticGood (CC). 39	Clockwork Spells table,	ConjureWoodland Bting-S	Creature Size and Space
breaking objects, 20, 362	Chaotic Neutral (CN), 39	146	spell, 255	table, 25
Breaking Your Oath	character, 7	Clone spell, 251	Constitution. 10	creature stat blocks, 346
sidebar. 111	appearance, 38	Clothes. Fino, 225	Constrictor Snake st.at	creature type, 364
Breaslplate, 219	background, 177	Clothes. Traveler's, 22S	block, 348	crew, 230
Br,wer's Supplies, 220	classes, 49	Cloodki/1spell, 2S1	Construct creature type.	Criminal background, 179
brewing healing potions.	create a, 33	Clood of Daggers spell,	364	Crilical Hil, 27, 364
233	death/demise, 28	251	Construct Spirit stat	Crocodile stat block, 34&
brewing Potionsof	gaining a level. 42	Club, 215		block, 324	crossbow bolt See Bolt, Healing, 233	origin, 177	Cobbler's Tools. 220	Contaa Other Pion• spell,		222
Bright Light, 19, 362	personality, 38	coins, 213	255	Crossbow Bolt C•se, 224
Brown Bear stat bloclc,	plar,r, 372	Coin Values1able. 213	Contact Patron dass	Crossbow Expert f.. t. 203
347	species, 177	Cold damage, 36S		feature, 155	crossbows, 21S Brutal Strike class	stabilizing a, 29	College of Dance	Conrogionspell, 256	Crowbar, 225
foalure, 53	Character Advancement	subclass. 64	Conringency spell, 256	Crownof Madness spell,
Bucket, 224	table, 41	College of Clamour	Conti11uol Flame spell,	259
Bullets, 222	character creation, 33		subclass, 65		256	Crusader's Montie spell, Bullseye Lantern, 226		ability scores, 38	Colli,ge of Lore subclass,	con1rolling a mount, 26		259
Burglar's Pack. 224	 alignment, 39		 66	 Control Warerspell, 256	 Crusher feat.203 Burning Ho•ds spell, 248	 class, 33	College of Valorsubclass,	 Control Weather spell, 257	Cube area oreffect. 364 burning hazard, 362	origin, 36		67	 Cook's Utensils, 220	 Cunning Action class Burrow Speed. 362	 starting at higher	 Color Spror spell, 251	Copper Piece (CP), 213		feature, 130
Bytopia, 344	levels, 43	combat, 23	Cottfon of Arr,,..,,spell.	Cunning Strike class
calculating AC,12	character sheet, 33-35,	 mounted, 26		258		feature, 130 Calligrapher'sSupplies,		363	order o" 23	Core 8arbarian Traits	CoreWounds spell, 259
220	Charger feat, 202	s1ep bystep.23	table, Sl	currency, 213
Call lightning spell, 248	Chariot. 230	undeMater, 27	Core Bard Traits lable, S9	curse, 364
Calm Emotions spell, 249	Charisma, 10	impeded weapons,	Core Cleric Traits table.	Cylinder area ofelfect, Cahrops, 22?	Charlatan background,	 27		69		364
Camel Slat block, 347		179	 comfortable lifestyle, 231	 Core Druid Traits table.	 d3,9 campaign, 8, 362	Charmed condition, 363	 Command spell, 251		 79	d4, 9 Candle, 224	 Chorm Monster spell, 249	Common language. 37	 Core Fighter Traits iablt,	 d6,9 cantrip, 362	 Charm Person spell, 249	Common Signlanguage,		91	d&.9 capacity, carrying, 362	 Cheffeat, 202		37	 Core Monk Tfaits ti1ble1	dl0,9 Carceri. 344	 Chest, 225	 Common• sptll, 252		 101	 d12, 9 cards. playing, 221	 Chill T<Wch spell, 249	 Commurtt with Nature	Core Paladin Traits tabfe,	d20, 9
Careful Spell metamagic,	choose a class, 33	spell, 252	109	020 Test, 9,10, 364
141	chooseanalignment, 39	 Compelled Duel spell, 252	Cote Ranger Traits table.	dlOO, 9 cargo. and mount, 229	 Chramaric Orl,spell, 249	component, 236		119	 Dagger. 21S
Carpenter's Tools, 220	ChthonicTiefling,196		 Material (M), 237	 Core RogueTraits!able,	damage,9, 27,364 Carriage, 230	 Circle ofDeoth spell. 250		 Somatic (S), 236		129		against multiple carryingcapacity, 362	 Cirelt of Powtrspell, 250		Verbal (V), 236	Core Sotceter Traits table,		targets, 28 Carrying Capacity table,	Circle of the Land	Component Pouch, 22S		139		 half, 28
363		subclass. 84	Comprehend t.ongooges	 Core Warlock Traits table,	 healing. 28 carryingobjects, 20	Circle of the Moon Spells		spell, 252		153	 Immunity, 369 Cart,230		 table,86	Compolsion spell, 252	Cote WizardTraits table,	massive, 28
Cartographer'sTools, 220	Circle of theMoon	Conc:entr.ation, 363	165	orderof application, 28
Case, Crossbow Boh, 224	subclass, 86	condition, 29, 363	Costume, 225	Resistance, 373
Case, Mapor Scroll, 224
Casi a Spell action. Ste	Circle of theSea Spells
table, 87	Blinded. 361	Counte,charm class	saving throws and, 28
Chanmed, 363	feature, 61	types, 28, 365
Magic, 15, 371	Circle of the Sea	Deafened, 365	Count,?// spell, 258	Vulnerability.377
Casting in Armor sidebar,	subclass.87	Exhaustion, 366	cover, 25.364	damage roll, 27. 364
235	Circle of theStars	Frightened. 367	Covertable, 26	damage threshold, 364
casting spells, 235	subclass. 88	Grappled, 367	Crab, Giant,stat block,	DamageTypes table, 365
casting time. 236	Clair,oran•• spell, 250	Immunity, 369	350	Dancing Lighr,spell, 259
casting without slots, 23$	class, choose a, 33	Incapacitated, 369	Crab stat block, 348	Oangec Sense class
Cat stat block, 347	classes, character, 49	Invisible, 370	Crafter feat, 200	fe.ature, S2
Celestial cteature type,	Class Overview table. 33	Paralyzed, 371	crafting equipment, 233	Darkness. 19, 365
364
Celestial language, 37	class spell lists, 236 Cleansing Touch class	Petrified, 372
Poisoned. 372	crafting nonmagical
Items, 233	Dorlcness spell, 260
Oarkvision, 365
Celestial Patron subclass,	feature. Set RHtoring	Prone, 372	crawling, 364	Darlwisian spell, 260
160	Touch, 111	Restrained. 373	create a charac'ler, 33	Dart, 215
Celestial Spells table, 160	Cleave mastery property,	Stunned, 376
Celes1ial Spirit Slat block,	214	Unconscious, 377	Create Food andWar,,
spell, 258	Dash action, 15,365
Darlight spell, 260
323	Cleric class, 49.69	Cone. area of effect. 364		Deafened condition. 365


INDEX	379
death, 365	 Divine Intervention class	 Eldritch Spear invocation,	 Extended Spell	 Fire Bolt spell, 274 character, 28		feature, 71		15S		metamagic. 142	 Firedamage, 36S Hit Point muimum of	Divine Orderclass	Electrum Piece (EP), 213	Extra Attackclass feature,	Fire Shi,ld spell, 274
0, 28		feature. 70	 Elemental Adept feat, 203		S3,92, 103, 111, 120	 Fire SIOrm spell, 275 Instant. 28	Diviner subclass, 173	 Elemental Chaos, 344	Ey,bile spell, 270	Fixed Hit Points by Class massive damage, 28	 Divine Smiu spell, 26S	Elemental creature type.	 Fobricoiespell, 271		table, 42
monster, 28	Divin•Word spell, 265	364	Faerie Firespell. 271	Flail, 21S
Death SavingThrow, 28,	Dodge action, l 5, 366	Elemental Furyclass	Faithful Steed class	F/ome Blod• spell, 275 36S	Domain Spells class		feature, 81		feature.111	Flam• Strik,spell, 27S
DeathWard spell, 261	feature, 73, 74, 75, 77	El•montolism spell, 267	falling hazard, 367	Flaming Sph<respell, 275
Deception skill, 14	Oominaie B•ast spell, 265	Elemental Planes, 344	falling offa mount, 27	Flask, 225
Deep Speech language,	Domim1te Monster spell,	Elemental Spirit slat	fallingunconscious, 28	Flesh ID Stone spell. 27S
37		26S		 block, 32S	 False Life spell, 271	 Flexible Casting. See Font Defense feat, 209	Domir101e Person spell,	ElementalWeapon spell,	Familiar. See Find		of Magic, 140 Defensive Duelist feat,		 266		268		Familiar, 272	flute, 221
203	Draconic Ancestors table,	Elephant stat bloct 349	Farmer background,180	flying, 367
Deflect Attacks class		187	Elf,189	 Fast Crafting table. 201	Fly Speed, 367 feature, 102	Oraconic language. 37	Elk sm block, 349	Fas1Movement class	 Fly spell, 276
Deflect Energyclass	Draconic So,cery	Elusive class feature, 131	feature, 53	F()(.uS, Arcane, 224
feature, 103	subclass, 148	Elven Uneages table. 190	Favor? Enemy class	Focus, Druidic. 225
Deflect Missiles. See	 Draconic Spells table, 148	Elvish language, 37		feature,119	 Focus,Spellcasting, 374 Deflect Attacks, 102	Draconic Spirit stat block,	Elysium, 344	Feorspell, 271	Foe Sfayerclass feature.
Deft Explorer dass	325	Emanation area of effect,	feat, 199	121
feature,120	 Draft Horse stat block,		 366		Epic Boon, 210	 Fog Cloud spell, 276 dehydration hazard, 365		349	Empowered Spell		 Fighting Style, 209	Font of Inspiration class Delayed Blost Fireball	Oragonborn, 187		metama,gic, 142	General, 202		feature, 61
spell, 261	 dragonchess, 221	Empowered Strikes class		Origin, 200	 Font ofMagic class Demiplane spell, 261	Dragon creature type, 364		feature,103	Feath,r Fall spell, 271		feature, 140 DestroyUndead class	 Dragon's Breath spell, 266	 Empty Bodyclass feature.	 F•at List table,199	food, 231
feature. See Sea,	Drowmij'slnff.Onr	 See Superior Defense,	Feeb/emind spell. See	Food, Drink, and Lodging Undead, 71		Summons spell, 266	103		Befuddltme11t. 245		table, 231
Oestructi"" Wa"" spell.	Dream spell, 266	encount·er, 366	Feign Death spell, 271	Food Needs per Day
261	drink, 231	encumbrance. Ste	Feral Instinct class	table, 371
Deie<t Evilond Cood	dropping prone, 2S		carrying capacity, 362		feature, 53	Forbiddanu spell, 276 spell, 261	dropping to OHit Points,	enemy, 366	Feral Senses class	Forucoge spell, 276
Deiect Magic spell, 262			28		Enhance Ability spell, 268		feature, 121		Force damage, 36S Dtua Poi11Jn ond Diuros.e	Drow, 189		Enlarge/Reducespell, 268	Foy creature type.364		 Fotesight spell, 276 spell, 262	Druid class, 49, 79	Ensnoring Strike spell, 268	Fey Spirit stat block, 326	Forest Gnome, 191
Detut Thoughts spell, 262	Core Druid Traits table,	Entangle spell, 268	Fey,Touched feat, 204	Forgery Kit, 221
Devil's Sight invocation,	79	Entertainer background,	FeyWanderer Spells	Fount of Moonlight spell,
155	Druid Features table, 80	180	table, 124	277
DeviousS1rikes class	spell list, 82	Entertainer's Pack, 225	FeyWanderer subclass,	Freedom of Mow:menr
feature, 131		subclasses, &4	 Enthro/1spell, 269		124		spell, 277 Devouring Blade	Druidtroft spell, 266	Epic Boon class feature.	Feywild, 344	Friendlyattitude, 367
invocation. 1SS	Druidicclass feature. 80	53, 61, 71, 81,92,103,	F•ywildGifts table,124	Friends spell, 277
Dexterity, 10	Druidic Focus, 225	111, 121,131,141.	Fiend creature type, 36-4	Frightened condition, 367
dice, 9	 Druidic Focuses table,		155, 167	 Fiendish Ltgacies table,	 Frog stat block, 349 Bardic Inspiration, S9		22S	 Epic Boon feats, 210		197	 gaining a level, 42 Martial Arts, 101	Druidic language. 37	equipment, 213	Fiendish Spirit stat block,	gainingspells, 235 notation, 9	 drum, 221		 craAing, 233		 327	 Calley, 230
percentile, 9	Dual Wielderfeat, 203	proficiency, 14	Fiendish Vigor	Gaming Set, 221
DifficultTerrain, 24, 366	 Dueling feat, 209	 Etherealness spell, 269		invocation, lSS	Gargantuan, 25 Difficulty Class (DC),	dulcimer, 221	Ethereal Plane, 344	Fiend Patron subclass,	 Caseous Form spell, 277
11, 366	 Dungeoneer's Pack, 22S	 Evard?BlockT•ntodes		 161	 Cate spell, 277 Dimt.nsion Door spell. 262	Dungeon Master, 4, 7		 spell. 270	 Fiend Spells table, 161	 Gaze ofTwo Minds Dim Light, 19,366	 Durable feat, 203	Eva.sionclass feature,	Fighter class, 49.91		invocation, 156 Diplomat's Pack, 22S	 Dwarf, 188		103, 131		Core FighterTraits	gear, adventuring, 222
DireWolfstat block, 348	Dwannshlanguage, 37	Evoker subclass, 174	table, 91	Ceo,spell, 278
Disadvantage, 12, 366	Earth, Elemental Plane	Exceptions Supersede	Fighter Feature, table,	Gehenna, 344 Disciplined Survivorclass		of, 344		General Rules		92	General feats, 202
feature, 103	Earthquake spell, 267	sidebar,8	subclasses, 93	generate ability scores, 38
Dlsengag• action, l S, 366  Eldritdt Blott spell, 267   Exhaustion condition,	Fighting Style class	Centi• Repose spell, 278 Disguise Kit, 221	Eldritch Invocation		366		fe•ture, 91, 110, 120  Giant Badger stat block, Disguise Selfspell, 262		options, 155	Expanding and Replacing  Fighting Style fem, 209		350
Disinugroie spell, 263	 Eldritchln'locations dass		 a Spellbook sidebar,	 Find Familiarspell, 272	 Giant Crab stat block, 350 dismounting, 26		feature, l 53		167	 finding hidden objects, 20	 Giant creature type, 364 Dispel Evil ond Cood spell,	Eldritch Knight	Expeditious Retreat spell,	Find Steed spell, 272	Ciant Coat stat block,
263	Spellcasting table,97	270	Find the Poth spell, 273	350
Dispel Mogic spell, 264	Eldritch Knight subclass,	expense, lifestyle, 230	Find Traps spell, 273	Ciani Insect spell, 279
Dissonant Whisper,spell,	96	Experience Points (XP),	Fine Clothes. 225	Giant Insect stat block.
264	Eldritch Master class	366	Finesse property, 213	279
Distant Spell metamagic,	feature,155	Expertise, 367	FingerafO.oth spell, 273	Giantlanguage, 37
141	Eldritch Mind invocation,	EJcpcrtise class feature,	Fire. Elemental Plane	Ciani Seahorse stat
Divination spell, 264	155	60, 121, 129	of. 344	block 350
Divine Fovarspell, 265	Eldritch Smite invocation,	exploration, 19	Firearm Bullet, 222	Giant Spider stat block, 15S	 Explorer's Pack, 22S	 Fireball spell, 274		351


380	INDEX
Giant Weasel stat block.	Holludnototy Tertoin	Hostileattitude, 363	Instrument. Musical. 221	 Life Domain subclass, 73 3S1		spell, 283	 hover, 368	 Intelligence, 10	Lifedrinlcer invocation. 1S6
Gift of the Depths	hammers, 21S	Huge, 2S	interacting with objects.	lifestyleexpense, 230
invocation, 156	Handa,e, 21S	Human,194	19	aristocratic, 231
Giftof the Protectors	Hand Crossbow, 21S	Humanoid cre-i;ture type,	interaction, social, 16	comfortable, 231
invocation, 156	 Harm spell, 283		364	Interception feat. 209	 modest, 231 Glaive, 215	 Hasr.spell. 284	Hungerof Hadar spell,	 tntetpfetjng DieRolls in	 poor, 231 Glassblower's Tools, 220	 Hawk stat block, 3S2		 286		the Storysidebar, 9	squalid, 231 Glass Boule, 224	hazard, 20, 368	Hunr.r•,Mark spell, 287	Intimidation skill, 14	 wealthy, 231
Glibness spell, 279	burning. 362	Huntersubclass, 127	Investigation skill, 14	wretched, 230
Clobe of Invulnerability	dehydration, 365	Hunting Trap, 226	Investment or the Chain	Light, 19
spell, 279	 falling, 367	Hypno1ic Potrem spell,		Master invoc.ation, l S6	Bright. 19, 362 Gloom Stalker Spells	malnutrition, 371		287	Invisible condition, 370	Dim,19,366
table, 126		suffocation. 376	Ice, Para•elemental Plane	lnvisibiliry spell, 289	Light armor, 219 Gloom Stalker subclass,	Healer feat, 201		of. 344	 Iron Pot, 228	Light Crossbow, 215
125	Healer's Kit, 225	Ice Knife spell, 287	 Iron Spikes, 228	light Domain Spells glossary. rules. 360	 healing, 28, 368	Ice Storm spell, 287	items, 233		table, 74
Glyph ofWording spell,	damage and, 27	Identifying a magic:item,	crafting nonmagic.al,	Light Domain subclass,
279	stabilizing a ch;iracter,	232	2H	74
Gnom•. 191		29	 Identifying an Ongo,ng		 wearing, 233	Light Hammer, 21S Gnomish language, 37	Healing, Porion of. 228		Spell sidebar, 238		wielding, 233	Lightly Armored feat, 205 Goat, Giant, stat block.	HealingWord spell, 284	ldenrify spell, 287	Jack of AllTrades class	Lightly Obscured, 19, 370
3SO	 Heal spell, 284	lgnan languag• dialect,		feature, 60	Lighrning Arrow spell, 292 Coat stat block, 3S1	 Heat Mero/ spell, 284		37	Jalloni?Stom, of	 Lightning Bolt spell, 292 Goblin language, 37	HeavilyArmored feat, 204	Illusion. 369		 Rodiam:e spell, 289	Lightning damage, 365
Gold Piece (GP), 213	HeavilyObscured, 19,368	Illusionist subclass.175	Javelin, 215	light property, 213
Goliath,192	Heavy, 213	//lu10ry S<ripr spell, 288	Jew•lor's Tools, 220	Lightspell,292
Coodbtrry spell, 280	Heavyarmor, 219	Immunity, 28, 369	Jug, 226	limbo, 344
Grappl•d condition, 367	 Heavy Armor Master	 impeded weapons,	 Jump, High, 369	line area of effect, 370 Grappler feat, 204		 feat, 204		 underwater combat. 27	 Jump, long. 370	lion slat block, 3S2 grappling, 367	Heavy Crossbow1 21S	 lmpri10nmen1 spell. 288		 jumping, 370	 Lizard stat block. 353 Grappling Hook, 225	 Heavy property. 213	Improved Blessed Strikes	Jump spell, 290	loading property, 214 Cra,pingVin• spell, 280	 Heightened Focus class		class feature, 7l		 Keelboat. 230	 Locate Animalsor PlaflfS Graze mast•ry property,		feature,103	 Improved Brutal Strike		Keen Mind feat. 20S		spell, 292
214	Heightened Spell	class feature, S3	Kiclass feature. Set	locor.Creature spell, 292
Grease spell, 280		metamaglc, 142	Improved Cunning Strike		Monk's Focus, 101	loear.Object spell, 293 Greataxe, 215	Hellish Rebut<,spell, 284		class feature, 131	t<i,Empowered Strikes	 Lock, 226
Greatclub, 21S	Helpaction, l 5, 368	lmp,oved Divine Smite.	class feature. Set	lodging, 231
Greater Divine	 Herbalism Kit, 221		Set Radiant Strikes,		Empowered Strikes,	 Longbow,215 Intervention class	 Hermit background, 182		 Ill		 103	 long Jump, 370 feature, 71	?eroes' Fcosr spell, 284	Improved Elemental Fury	ki points. Su Monk's	long Rest, 370
Ctta?r Invisibility spell,	Heroic Inspiration, 13,	class feature, 81	f<><:us, 101	longship, 230
281	368	improvised weapon, 369	knocking out a creature,	1.ong,trider spell, 29J
Creaur Resrororiofl spell.	Heroic Inspiration	Improvised Weapons	29,370	longsword, 215
281		sidebar, 13		sidebar, 214	Knocking Out a Creature	lucky f•at, 201 Great Old One Patron	Heroism spell, 285	Imp stat block, 352		sidebar, 28	lut•. 221
subclass, 162	Hex spell, 285	Incapacitated condition,	Knock sp•II, 290	lyre, 221
Gr•at Old One Spells	Hide action, 15, J68	369	Laddor, 226	Mace, 215
table, 163	 Hide Armor, 219	ln<endioryCloud spell,	lamp, 226	 Mage Armorspell, 293 Greatsword, 21S	hiding, 19		288	lanee, 215	 Moge Hand <pell, 293 Great Weapon Fighting  High Elf,189	 Indifferent attitude, 369  language. 37	Mage Slayerfeat, 205
feat, 209	High Jump, 368	lndomitabfe class feature,  lanterns, 226	Magic action,15,371
Great Weapon Masttr	hireling, 232	92	large, 25	Magical Cunning class
feat, 204	Hirelings table, 232	Indomitable Might class	 Lawful Evil (LE), 39		featuro, 154 Guard background, 181	Historyskill, 14		feature, 53	 lawful Good (LG), 39	 magical effect, 371 Guordion of Foith spell,	Hit, Critical, 27	Infernal language. 37	Lawful Neutral (LN). 39	Magical sec,ets class
    281 Hit Dice, 41, 368	Infernal Tiefling, 196	layOn Hands class	feature, 61
Cuardl andWard,SP"II,	Hit Point Dice, 41,368	InflictWound! spell, 288	feature, 109	MogicCircle spell, 293
    282 Hit Poirit ma,cimum of	Influence action, 1S, 369	Leather Armor, 219	Magic Initiate f•at, 201
Guidan,;e spell, 282	0, 28	Influence Checks table,	leatherworker'sTools,	magic item, 232
Guide background, 181	Hit Points, 27, 368	369	220	identifying a, 232
Guiding Bolt spell, 282	dropping to0, 28	Initiative, 23, 369	Legtnd Lor,spell, 290	MagicJarSP"II, 294
Guild Artisan. SU		Temporary, 29, 376	Initiative order. 23	Leomurtd's Secret Che.st	Magic Missile spell. 295 Artisan, 178	Hold Monsr.rspell, 285	 Ink, 226		spell, 290	Magic Mouth spell, 295
Guild Merchant. S.e	Hold Per10n spell. 286	Ink Pen, 226	leomund?Tiny Hut spell,	MogicWeapon spell, 295
Merchant, 182	Holy Auro spell, 286	Innate Sorcery class	291	Magma, Para-elemental
Cv,1 ofWind spell, 282	 Holy Symbol, 226		featurt, 139	 Lesser Resrorotion spell,		Pl•ne of, 344 Hades, 344	 Holy Symbols table, 226	 Inner Planes, 34?		 291	 Magnifying Glass, 226 Hail of Thoms spell, 283	HolyW•ter, 226	lnsecr Plague spell, 289	lessons of theFifst Ones	Mail, Chain, 219 Halberd, 215	 Hooded Lantern, 226	 Insight ,kill, 14		Invocation, l S6	 Mail, Ring, 219
HalfCover, 26	Hook, Grappling, 225	Inspiration. See Heroic	level advancement, 41	Mail, Scale, 219
halfdamage, 28	 horn, 221		Inspiration, 368	level l Hit Points by	 Major Image spell, 295 HalAing, 193	 Horse, Draft, stat block,	 Inspiring leader feat, 204		Class table, 40	 making anatta<k, 25 Halfflng language. 37		349	insumt death, 28	 Levitar. spell, 291	making anOpportunity Half PlateArmor, 219	Horse, Riding, stat block,	 Instinctive Pounce class	 Life Domain Spells table,		Attack, 26
Hallow spell, 283	356	feature, S3	73	malnutrition hazard, 371
IN0ŁX	381
Manacles, 226	Monastic Tradition class	Noble background, 133	Pact of the Blade	Plane, Material, 344
Manifestationsof Order	feature. See Monk	Nondeiection spell, 302	invocation. 156	Plan,Shift spell. 305
table. 146		 Subclass. 103	nonplayer character	 Pact of the Chain	 Plant creature type, 364 Map, 227	Monk class. 49, 101		(NPC), 371		 invocation, 1S7	 Plant Crowlh spell, 305 Map Case, 224		Core Monk Traits table,	 Ny,iul?Magic Aura spell,	Pact of theTome	Plate Armor, 219 Marching Order sidebar.			101		302		invocation, l 57	 Platinum Pie<e (PP), 213
20	Monk Features table,	Oath of Devotion Spells	 Padded Armor, 219	 play, rhythm of, 8 Martial Archetypeclass		102		table, 113	Painter's Supplies. 221	player, beinga, 7
feature. Su Fighter		subclasses. 104	Oath ofDevotion	Paladin class, 49,109	playercharacter, 372 Subclass. 92	Monk's Focus dass		subclass, 113		Core Paladin Traits	playingcards, 221
Martial Arts class feature.	feature, 101	Oath of Glory Spells	table,109	Playingon a Grid sidebar,
101	Monkweapon, 101	table,115	Paladin Features table,	25
Martial Meleo weapon,	monster, 371	Oath of Glory subclass,	110	point cost ability score
213	monster death, 28	114	spell list.112	generatfon, 38
Martial Ranged weapon,	Monstrosity creature	Oath of the Ancicrtts	subclasses, 113	Poison, Basic, 227
213		type, 364		Spells table, 115	Paladin's Smiteclass	Poison damage, 365 Martial Weapon Training	Moonbeom spell, 300	Oath of theAncients		feature, 110	Poisoned condition, 372
feat, 205	Motdenkointn'sFoiihful	subclass, 115	Pandemonium, 344	Poisoner feat, 206
Maskof Many Faces		Hound spell. 300	Oath of Vengeance Spells	 pan Aute, 221	Poisoner's Kit, 221 invocation, 1S6	Mordenkointn's		table, 117	Panther stat block, 354	 Poison Sprayspell. 306
Mason'sTools, 221	 Mog,,ificem Monsion	Oath of Vengeance	 Paper, 227	Polar Land circle spells Moss CureWounds spell.	spell, 300		subclass, 116	Para,elemental Planes,		tible,84
296	Mordenkoinen's Private	object, 20, 371	344	Pol•. 228
Moss H,aling Word spell,	Sanctum spell, 301	breaking, 20, 362	Paralyzed condition, 371	Polearm Master feat, 206
296	 Morde.nkointn's Sword		 carrying, 20	 Parchment. 227	 Polymorph spell. 306 Mon H,al spell, 296		spell, 302		finding hidden, 20	 passenger, 230-231	Pony stat block. 3S4 massive damage, 28	Morningstar, 21S		 interacting with, 19	Passive Perception, 40.	 poor lifestyle, 231 Moss Svgg,slion spell, 296	mount, 26, 229			time41imited, 20		372	Portable Ram, 228 Master ofMyriad Forms		 and cargo. 229	Object ArmorClass table,	 Passwol/ spell, 303	 position, 24
invocation, 1S6	 controlling a, 26		 362	 Poss wi1hour Troet spell,	 possession. 372 mastery property, 214	 f.,llingofh, 27	 Object Hit Points table,		 303	 Pot. Iron, 228 Mastiffstat block, 353	mounting a, 26		362	Path of the Berserl<er	 Potion of H,aling. 228 Material component (M),	 travel on a, 20	Ob,cured, Heavily,19,		subclass. 54	Pouer's Tools. 221
237	Mount Celestia, 344	368	Path of the Totem Warrior	Pouch, 228
Material Plane, 344	 mounted combat, 26	 Obscured, Lightly, 19, 370 subclass. Se, Path of Pouch, Component, 225 Maul, 21S	Mounted Combat-ant	 obscured area, 19		theWold Heart, 55	PowtrWord Fonify spell, Mazespell, 296		feat, 205	Obseovant feat, 205	Path of theWild Heart		306
Mechanus, 344	Mounts and Other	occupied space, 371	subdass, SS	PowerWord H<olspell,
Medicine skill, 14	Animals table, 229	Octopus stat block, 353   Path of the World Tree	306
Medium, 25	 Move Earth spell, 302	Oil, 227		subclass, 56	 Po.,.,Word Kill spell, 306 Medium armor, 219	movement, 24	One with Shadows	Path of the Zealot	PowerWord Sum spell, Medium Armor Master		around otherc.reatures,		invocation, 1S6		subclass, 57		306
real, 20S	25	Ooze. Pua4elemental	Pen, Ink, 226	Pray,,of H,allng spell,
M•ld into s,on,spell, 296	breaking up your. 26	Planeof, 344	percentage chances, 9	307
melee attack, 26	through Difficult	Oo,e creature type, 364	percentile dice, 9	Precise Hunter class
melee attack bonus, 41	Terrain, 25	Opportunity Attack, 26.	Perception, Passive, 40.	feature, 121
Mel•• weapon, 213	 Mule stat block, 353	 371		372	preparingspells, 23S M•lf'• Acid Arrow spell,	muhiclassing, 44	avoiding an, 26	Perception skill,14	 Pmodlgi<o<ion sp•II. 307
297	Muhiclass Spellcaster:	making an, 26	perday, 372	Priest's Pack, 228
Memorize Spell class	Spell Slots per Spell	Ore, 195	Perfect Focus class	Primal Champion class
feature, 167	level table, 45	Ore language, 37	feature, 103	feature, 53
M,nding spell, 297	multiverse, 344	orderofcombat, 23	Performanco skal, 14	Primal Knowledge class
Merchant background,	Musical Instrument, 221	origin. character, 177	Perfume, 227	feature, 52
182	Musician feat, 201	 origin. determine, 36	 Persistent Rageclass	Primal Order class Mrnog• spell, 29&	Musket, 215	Origin feats, 200		feature, S3		feature, 80 Met.amagic dass feature.	Mystic Arcanum class	 Otherworldly leap	petsonality. charactet, 38	Primal Path class
141		feature, 155		invocation, 1S6	Personality Traitsby	 feature. Set-Ba(batian metamagic options. 141	Natural Explorer class	Otherworldly Patron class		Alignment table, 40	Subclass, 52
Meteor S""'rm spell, 29&		 feature. Stt Deft		 feature, See Warlock	Persuasion skm, 14	 Primordial language, 37 Mind Blank spell, 298		Explorer,120		Subclass,154	 Petrified condition, 372	 Prismoth: Spray spell, 307 Mind Slivu spell, 298	natutal 1. 12	 OtherworldlySteed stat	 Phantasmal Fore,spell,	 PrismaticWoll spell, 30& Mind Spiu spell, 298	 natural 20, 12		 block, 273		304	 Produu Flame spell, 30& Minor Illusion spell, 29&	 Nature skill, 14	OtilvM't Frtezing Sphere	 Phantasmal Kil/,rspell.	proficiency,13, 372 Mirog, Arcon• spell, 299	 Nature's Veil class		 spell. 302		 304		equipment, 14
Mirror, 227	feature, 121	Otilukt1s Resilient Sphere	Phantom s,.,d spell, 304	saving throw, 14
Miffor lmog,spell, 299	 Nature's Ward table, 85		spell, 303	 Pick, War, 215	skill. 13 Mislead spell, 299	Navigator's Tools, 221	Otto's l«esisrible Do1'Gt	pick locks. s.. Thieves'	 tool, 220 MiSfyS<ep spell, 299	 Necrotic damage, 36S		spell, 303		Tools, 221	 weapon, 213
Misty Visions invocation,	Needle, 222	Outer Planes, 344	Pierce, foat, 206	P(oficiency Bonus, 13
156	Net, 227	Outer Planes table, 344	Pietdngdamage, 365	Profidency Bonus table,
Moderately Armored feat,  Neutral (N), 39	Outlands, 344	Pike, 215	13
205	Neutral Evil (NE), 39	Owl stat block, 354	Pistol, 215	Ptogrammtd lllusiort spell.
modest lifestyle, 231
modifier, ability, 10, 360	Neutral Good (NG), 39
Nick mastery property,	pace. travel, 20
Pact Magic cJass feature,	Planar Ally spell, 304	309
Planar Binding spell, 305	Projta Image spell, 309
Modify Memory spell. 299	214	1S3
Nine Hells, 344	Plane. Astral, 344
Plane, Ethereal, 344	prone, dropping. 25
Prone condition, 372


382	INDEX
prop•rty. w•apon, 213		Rtincomoie spell. 311		S..n;hing Royspell. 313	Skills with Different			Somatic (S). 236 Protection feat, 209	Relentless Hunu?r class	Scorpion St.II blodc. 3S6		Abllitfes sidebar, 14		Verbal (V), 236 ""''"'ion from energy			reature, 121	 Scribe background, 184	Skulker foat, 208	descriptions. 239
spell. 309	Relentless Rage class	scribing Sp,/1 Stroll,.233	Slaad Tadpole stat block,	duration. 237
Protea/on from evil and	reatur?. 53	Stroll, Spell. 228	3S7	effects, 237
Good spell. 309	ReliabfeTalent class	Scroll Case, 224	Slasher feat, 208	gaining, 23S
Pt0reetion from Poison		reature, 131	 S,rying spell, 313	 Slashing damage, 365	level, 23S spell, 310	Religion skill, 14	Seahorse, Ctant, Stilt	Sled. 230	 preparing. 235
Pseudodragon stat block,	Remo.e Cur,e spell, 312	block, 3SO	Sleop spell, 317	rang•, 236
354	Repelling Blast	Search action, 15. 373	Slut Siorm spell. 317	save DC. 238
Psionic Power class	invocation, 1S7	Search table. 373	Sleight of Hand skill.14	saving throw, 238
feature, 98	Resilient feat, 206	Storing Smiu spell. 314	Sling, 21S	slots, 23S
Psionic Spells table.145	Resistance, 28. 373	Sear Undead class	Sling Bullet. 222	using a higher-level
Psi Warrior Energy Dice	Reshtonce spell.312	reature. 71	Slippery Mind class	spell slot. 236
table.98	Rest, Long, 370	Second Wind class	feature, 131	Spellcasting class feature,
PsiWarrior subclass, 98	Rest,Short, 373	feature, 91	Slow spell, 318	59,69, 79,109, 119,
Psychicdamage. 36S	Resting sidebar, 27	Set ln•isibiliiy spell, 314	Slow Fall class feature,	139, 16S
punching. See Unarmed	Restoring Touch class	Seeking Spell metamagic.		103	Spellcasting Focus, 374 Strike, 377		feature, 111		142	Slow mastery property,	Spellcas1ing Services
Pi,rift Food and Drink	Restrained condition, 373	Seeming spell, 314	214	table, 232
spell, 310	Rtsurrtcrion spell, 312	Sel(,Restoration class	Small, 2S	spell list. Bard, 62 Push mastery property,	 Reverse Gro•i,Y spell, 312		feature, 103	Smith's Tools, 221	spell list, Cleric, 71
214	 Revivification. 57	 Seiling Equipment	 Snake. Constrictor, stat	spell llst, Druid, 82 Quarterstaff, 215	 R,vi.,;fespell, 312		sidebar, 213		block, 348	spell list, Paladin, 112 Quasit stat block, 35S	rhythm or play,8	 Sending spell, 314	Snake,Venomous, stat	spell list, Ranger, 121 Quickened Spell	 Riding Horse stat block,	senses, special, 19		block, 358	spell list, Sorcerer. 142
metamagk, 1?2		3S6	 Sentinel fcat, 207	Sneak Attack class	 spell list, Warlock, 157 Quiver, 223	Ring Mail, 219	S,q"osurspell, 315		feature, 129	spell list. Wizard, 168 race. See chiilracte,	 Ritual, 373	 services, 230	 social Interaction, 16	 spell llsts, class, 236
species, )77	Ritual Adept class	 Session Zero stdebar1 33	Soldier background. 18S	Spell Masteryclass Radiant damage, 36S		feature, 166	Shadowfell. 344	Somatic component (S),		featurt, )67
Radiant Strikes cJass	 Ritual Caster feat, 206	Shadow-Touched feat.		236	Spell Preparation by Class feature, 111	Rob<e,228		207	Sorcerer class. 49, )39		,able, 235
Rage class feature. S1	Rock Gnome, 191	Shoped!onge spell. 315	Core Sorcerer Trait·s	spells, 235
Roise Dead spell, 310	Rogueclass, 49, 129	shape-shifting.373	table, 139	Spell Sero/I, 228
Ram, Portable. 228	Core Rogue Ttaits	Shark, Reef, stat block.	Soteerer Features	Sp,11Sero/I, scribing, 233
random generation,		table, 129		3S6		12ble, 140	Spell Scroll Costs table, ability score, 38	Rogue Features table,	Sharpshooter feat, 207	spell list. 142		233
random iabl•s. 9	130	Shoturspell. 316	subclasses, 145	Spell Sniper feat, 208
range. 26		subclasses, 132	 shawm, 221	Sorurous Bursr spell, 318	Sphere area ofeffect, 374 spell, 236	roleplaying, 16	Shield, 219	 Sorce:rous Restoration	Sphinxof Wonderstat
ranged anack, 26	Rope, 228	Shield Master feat, 207	da.ss feature, 141	block, 3S7
in close combat, 26	 Rope Tritk spell, 312	 Shield of Fai1h spell, 316	 Sorcery Incarnate class	 Spider Climb spell, 319 ranged attack bonus, 41	 round down, 373	 Shield spell, 316		feature, 141	Spider, Giant, stat block, Ranged weapon, 213	Round Down sidebar, 8	Shillelogh spell, 316	Sorury Points, 141		351
Range property, 214	Roving class rcature, 121	Shini'ng Smiuspell, 316	Soulknife Energy Diet	Spider stat block, 357
Ranger class, 49, 119	Rowboat, 230	ships. 230		table, 135	 Spike Growih spell, 319 Core Ranger Traits	 rules glossary, 360	 Shotking Grasp spell, 316	Soulknife subclass. 135	Spikes, Iron, 228
table, 119	Sack, 228	Shortbow, 21S	space, occupied, 371	SpiritGuordions spell, 319
Ranger Features table,	Sacred Flome spell, 313	Short Rest, 373	space, unoccupied, 377	SpirituolWeopon spell, 319
120	Sacred Oath class	Shortsword, 21S	 Spore iht 0,,ing ,pell, 318	Splint Armor, 219 spell list,121		 f<ature. Ste Paladin	Shovel, 228	Sp,ok wirh Animals spell,	Sprite stat block, 358 subclasses, 122		Subclass, 111	 shoving. Su Unarmed		318	Spyglass, 229
Rapier, 21S	Sacred Weapon clus	Strike, 377	Speok w,'rh Dtod spell,	squalid lifestyle. 231
Rare Languages 11ble, 37	fu1ure, 113	Sickle, 21S	318	squeezing. See Difficult
Rory'sTelepathic Bond	saddles, 229-230	Slgil, 344	Sp,ok with Plants spell,	Tetrain, 24, 366
spell, 311	Sage background. 183	Signal Whistle, 228	319	stabilizing a character, 29
Rations, 228	Sailing Ship, 230	Signature Spells class	Spear, 215	Stable, 374
Ra1s1a1block, 3SS	Satlor background, 184		feature, 167	special sens.es, 19	Stogguing Smiu spell, Raven stat block. 3S5	 Sonctuory spell, 313	S/l<nu spell, 316	species. character, 177		320
Royof eefeeblement spell,	Sapmastery property. 214	Silent Image spell, 317	Speed, 374	standard array, ability
311	 Savage Attacker f.. t. 201  Sliver Piece (SP), 213		Burrow, 362		score generation, 38 Roy ofFros1spell, 311	save, 373	Simple Me leeweapon,	Climb, 363	Standard Array byClass Roy of Siclrnoss spell, 311  saving throw, 11,373		213		Fly, 367		 table, JS
reach, 26	and damage, 28	Simple Ranged weapon,		Swim, 376	Standard Languages Reach property, 214	 proficiency, 14		213	Speedy ru,. 208		table, 37
Reaction, 1S, 372	spell, 238	Simulacrum spell. 317	spell. 374	Siar Map table, 88
Readyaction. 1S, 372	Saving Throw. Death, 29	.slmultan?us efftctS, 37?	always•pr<pared, 235	SiorryWisp spell, 320
Reckless At1ick chtss	Saving Throw Examples	 size, 2S. 374	attack. 374	starting at higher levels, ftature, 52		table, 12	Skeleton st.it block. 356	attack modi1icr, 238		43
recovering ammunition.	Scale Mail, 219	skill, 374	casting, 235	Starting Equipment at
See ammunition, 21)	 Scholarclass feature, 166		proficiency, 13	 casting tJmt, 236		 Higher Levels table, 43 ReefShark stat block.3S6	 Scholar's Pack, 228	 Skilled foa1, 201	casting without slots,	starvation. S<? refittingprate armor. Su	Schools of Magic table,	Sklll Expert real, 207		235		malnutrition, 371
equipment size.s, 219	236	Skills table, 14	components, 236	stat block. 374
Rtgenen,i,spell, 311	Scimitar, 21S	Material (M), 237	stat blocks,creature, 346


IN'DEX	383
Steady Aim class <eatvre,
130
Stealth skill, 14
suet Wind Strike spell, 320
Stillness of Mind class	Tel,potta1ion Circle spell,	Trident, 215	damage, 28	Wild Magic Surge table,
future. Ste Self.	332	trinkets, 46	Wagon, 230	150
Restoration. 103	Teltpott spell, 331	Trinkets table, 46	Woll of Fire spell, 338	Wild Resurgence class
Slinking Cloud spell, 321	Temperate Land circle	Tropical Land circle spells	Woll ofFo"e spell, 338	feature.81
Slone Shope spell.321	spells table,85	table,85	Woll of let spell, 339	Wild Shape class feature,
Stoneskin spell, 321	Temporary Hlt Points,	T,ut Polymorph spell, 335	Woll of Stone spell, 339	80
S1orm ofVengeonte spell,	29,376	True Rtsufftction spell.	Woll ofThoms spell. 339	Wind Wolk spell, 341
321	Ttnstri F/001ing Disk	336	War Caster feat. 209	Wind Woll spell, 341
Strength, 10	spell, 332	True Seeing spell, 336	Wording Bond spell, 340	Wisdom, 10
String, 229	Tent, 229	Truesight. 377	War Domain Spells table,	Wish spell. 341 Stroke of luck class	 Terran language dialect,	 Trve S1rike spell, 336		77	Wi?h Boll spell, 343
feature, 131		37	T$unomi spell, 336	War Domain subclass, 76	Witch Sight invocation, Studded Leather Armor,	Thoumalutgy spell. 333	 Turn Undead. See	Warhammer, 21S		157
219	Thief subclass, 137	Channel Divinity, 70	Warhorse stat block, 3S9	Wizard class, 49,165
Studied Attacks class	Thlevts' Cant class	Twinned Spell	Warlock class. 49,153	CoteWizard Traits reatufe, 92		feature, 129		metamagic. 142		Core Warlock Traits		table, 165
Study action, 15,375	Thieves' Cant language,	Two Extra Attacks class	table, 153	spell list,168
Stunned condition. 376	37	feature, 92	spell list. 157	subclasses. 172
Stunning Strike class	Thieves' Tools, 221	Two-Handed property.	 subclasses, 159	Wizard Features table. feature, 103	Thirsting Blade		214	Warlock Features table,		166
Subtle Spell metamagic,	invocation, 157	Two,Weapon Flghting	154	Wolf, Dire, >tat block, 348
142	ThornWhip spell, 333		feat, 210	 War Pick. 215	 Wolfstat block, 359 suffocation hazard. 376	three-dragon ante, 221	Typical Difficulty Classes	Warrior of Mercy	Woodcarvers Tools. 221 Suggesiion spell. 321	 Three Extra Attacks class		 table, 11		subclass. 104	 Wood Elf,189
Summon Aberration spell,	feature. 92	Unaligned Creatures	Warrior of Shadow	Ward of Radiancespell,
322	Thrte•Quarters Cover, 26	sidtbar, 39	subclass, 105	343
Summon Beast spell, 322	Thrown property, 214	Unarmed Fighting feat,	Warrior of the Elements	Word of Rua// spell, 343
Summon Celestial spell,	ThrownWeapon Fighting	210	subclass. 106	Words ofCreation class
323	feac, 210	Unarmed Strike. 377	Warrior o(the Open	feature, 61
Summo11 Consttuct spell,	Thunderclap spell, 333	Unarmored Defense class	Hand subclass. 107	Wro1hfal Smite spell, 343
324	Thunder damage, 365	feature, 51, 101	Warship, 230	wretched lifestyle. 230
Summon Drogon spell,	Thunderous Smile spell.	Unarmored Movement	Water, Elem.ental Plane	Yolande's Regal Presenu
324	334	class feature, 102	of, 344	spoil, 343
Summon Eltmenl41spell,	Thunderwave spell. 334	Uncanny Dodge class	Water, Holy, 226	Ysgard, 344
32S	TioAing, 196	feature, 131	Wo1er Breathing spell, 340	0 Hit Points, dropping
Summon F,y spell, 326	tiers of play, 43	Uncanny Metabolism	Water Needs per Day	to. 28
Summon Fiend spoil, 326	T1ger stat block, JS&	class feature, 102	table, 365	Zombie stat block. 359
StJmmon Undcod spell,	Tlmeless Body class	unconscious. falling, 28	Waterskin, 229	Zone o[Truth spell, 343
328		 feature. See Self•	Unconscious condition,	 WalerWolk spell. 340 Sunbwm spell, 329		 Restoration, 103		377	Wayfarer background, 185 Sunburs1 spell, 329	time-limittd object	 Undead creature lype,	 wealthy lifestyle, 231 Svperior Defense class		interaction, 20		 364	 weapon, 213, 377
feature. 103	Time Stop spell, 334	Undead Spirit sta1 block,	attack, 377
Superior lnspirition class	Tlnderbox, 229	328	improvised, 369
feature, 61	Tinker's Tools, 221	Unde,common language,	Martial, 213
surprise, 23,376	Tiny, 25	37	mastery property, 214
Survival skill, 14	 TirettS$ class feature, 121	 undel'Wate:r eombat. 27	 Mtlte, 213 Swift Quiver spell, 329	Toll the Dead spell. 334	unoccupied space. 377	Monk, 101 swimming, 376	 Tongues spell, 334	 Unseen Attackers and	 proficiency, 213 Swim Speed. 376	 tool proficiency, 220		Targets sidebar, 26	 property, 213
swords. 215	 tools, 220	Unseen Sen,ont spell, 336	 Ranged,213 Sylvan language, 37	Topple mastery property,	 Use an Object. See	Simple. 213
Symbol spell, 329		214		 Utilize, 15. 377	 Weapon Master feat, 209 Synoptic Sl4tic spell. 330	 Torch, 229	using a higher•level spell	Weapon Masteryclass tables. random, 9	Total Cover, 26		slot, 236		ftature. 52,91.110,
Tack, Harness, and	Tough feat, 202	Utilize action, 15,377	120, 129
Drawn Vehicles table,	transitive planes, 344	Vompiri,Touch spell, 337	Weapons table, 215
230	Transmuted Spell	Vanish class feature. Stt	 wearing Items, 233 Tactical Master class		metamagic. 142		Nature's Veil, 121	Weasel, Giant, stat block,
feature, 92	Tronsport "io Pfonr.s spell,	Variant Equipment Sizes	351
Tactical Mind class	334	sidebar, 219	Weasel stat block, 359
feature. 91	Trap, Hunting, 226	vehicle, 20, 229	 Weaver'sTools, 221 Tactical Shift class	 traps, finding. removing,	 Venomous Snake stat	Web spell, 340
featur?, 92	disabling. SU Thieves'		block, 358	Weird spell, 3?1 target, 376	 Tools, 221	Verbal component (V),	 What Would Your
Tasha's Bubbling Cauldron	 travel, 20,231		236	 Character Do? sidebar, spell, 330	Traveler's Clothes, 225	Ve1Satile property, 214	15
Tasha's Hideous Laughter	travel pace, 20	Vex mastery property, 214	Whip, 215
sptll, 331	 Travel Pace table, 20	 Vial, 229	Whispers of the Grav, Tavern Brawler feat, 202	Travel table, 231	Vicious Mocke,y spell, 337		invocation, l S7 Telekinesis spell, 331	 Tree S1ride spell. 335	 viol, 221	Whistle,Signal, 228


384	INOEX


