

--- PAGE 1 ---

Short Encounters for
Characters of Any Level
by Alan Tucker

--- PAGE 2 ---

CAN WE KEEP HIM?
 
A handful of short encounters and story hooks
that may cause your party
to question their desire to have pets…
Designed for characters of all levels
by Alan Tucker
Edited by Linda May , Art by Alan Tucker and the fine folks of the DMsGuild
 
DUNGEONS & DRAGONS, D&D, Wizards of the Coast, Forgotten Realms, Ravenloft, the dragon ampersand, and all other Wizards of the Coast product names, and 
their respective logos are trademarks of Wizards of the Coast in the USA and other countries.
This work contains material that is copyright Wizards of the Coast and/or other authors. Such material is used with permission under the Community Content 
Agreement for Dungeon Masters Guild.
All other original material in this work is copyright ©2018 by MAD Design, Inc. and Alan Tucker and published under the Community Content Agreement for 
Dungeon Masters Guild.

--- PAGE 3 ---

A Collection of Short Encounters for D&D 5e Characters of All Levels  •  3
But , I Want  a  Pet …
Pets are fun! Everyone loves pets— except DMs who often already have too much to keep track of while 
running an adventure. So, how can we gently dissuade the party from wanting to befriend every stray 
animal or baby monster they run across in the game?
Within are a handful unusual circumstances built around the idea adopting pets. Designed for 
many different levels of play, these encounters should encourage your party to pause the next time 
they run across something cute and fuzzy.
Note: For each of the encounters, text within a box is intended to be read aloud or paraphrased. 
Where necessary, book and page references are given for monster stats or specific items. Also 
included is a brand new monster, the Black Rose Bush, with full stats and suggestions for 
adjustments to suit many party levels.
If you enjoy this collection of encounters, please take a 
moment to rate it and leave a comment or review!
And be sure to check out my other products!
Alan Tucker also writes fantasy and science fiction novels 
and you can find links to all of his books (several are 
FREE!) at www.AlanTucker.net
PWYW!
FREE!


--- PAGE 4 ---

4  •  Can We Keep Him?
Love  Is  Forever , 
PolymorPh  Is  n ot
e nv Ironment : a ny  exce Pt  ur Ban
Party  Leve L as  Presented : a ny
c an  Be  ada Pted  to  Party  Leve Ls : a ny
Your day traveling through the wilderness has 
been dreary and uneventful— the untold lot of 
the adventuring life.
A rustling in the undergrowth to your right, 
however, snatches your flagging attention and 
you see a ball of fur and fluff barrel onto the 
path ahead of you. A bright-eyed puppy, ears 
flopping and jaws snapping, is clumsily chasing 
after some flying insect. As you watch, the small 
canine makes a heroic leap toward the bug, but 
falls comically short and the insect flutters away. 
The puppy jumps up and, having lost sight of 
its prey, looks around, its playful eyes finally 
landing on you for the first time. Its ears perk up 
and its tail wags with renewed enthusiasm as it 
issues an adorable bark of challenge.
What in the world is a puppy doing out alone in 
the wilderness? The players will soon find out, 
however, allow them a few minutes to engage 
with the fuzzy ball of energy before revealing 
the puppy’s true identity— especially if you 
have players who have been begging for some 
sort of animal companion to join them on their 
adventures. 
After an appropriate amount of time, up to the 
DM’s discretion, but less than an hour, read the 
following to the character who is either holding or 
most closely attached to the puppy:
The energetic bundle of cuteness suddenly stops 
and cocks its head, looking at you with the 
sweetest, deep brown eyes. Those precious eyes 
turn reptilian and the puppy’s body grows and 
morphs into an enormous [insert color] dragon!
The beast snarls and looks down at you. “Where 
is he?!”
The adorable puppy is, in fact, a dragon who has 
been the victim of a polymorph spell. The DM 
can choose an appropriate size and color for the 
monster, according to the party level and terrain.
This encounter can be one of combat or 
negotiation, depending on the DM’s wishes. If 
a peaceful ending is desired, make the dragon 
as overwhelming and fearsome as necessary 
to discourage the players from taking hostile 
actions and ending up as an appetizer.
The dragon is looking for the wizard who 
managed to land the successful polymorph upon 
its perfect reptilian form. If asked about what 
happened, the dragon, Ixmatran, will snort and 
explain:
“I was about to enjoy a bite of wizard— a rare 
delicacy— when the slippery weasel pulled out 
a scroll and somehow overcame my defenses!” 
The dragon’s eyes narrow. “You don’t look nearly 
as tasty, but my palate is becoming less choosy 
with each passing moment. Have you anything 
interesting to offer in place of your flesh?”
The dragon is bent on revenge against the wizard 
who managed to escape its clutches and will 
accept help from the players in tracking down 
the magic-user and allowing the dragon the 
pleasure of its interrupted meal. Ixmatran can 
offer a description of the wizard and show the 
party where the altercation occurred if they so 
desire, in order to pick up clues as to who the 
wizard might be, or where he may have fled. 
a Lternat Ives :
This encounter can be used to introduce a 
recurring foe for the players, either in the form of 
the dragon or the wizard. It could also be used 
to send the players on a particular quest in order 
to appease the dragon. As mentioned, it can also 
simply be a combat encounter if the dragon is not 
overly intimidating for the party .
Ixmatran’s inability to save against the polymorph 
spell, regardless of the dragon’s power level, can 
be explained by having used up all their legendary 
resistances earlier in the tussle with the wizard, 
who also happened to be of the school of divination 
with access to a less-than-favorable portent roll to 
inflict upon Ixmatran.
The encounter can be set in any type of terrain 
appropriate for the DM’s campaign and matched 
with a suitable color of dragon.

--- PAGE 5 ---

A Collection of Short Encounters for D&D 5e Characters of All Levels  •  5
t he  GrIFF on  or  the  e GG
e nv Ironment : s ma LL v ILLa Ge  or  WILderness
Party  Leve L as  Presented : 2-4
c an  Be  ada Pted  to  Party  Leve Ls : 5-10
“Griffon egg for sale!” a bedraggled merchant barks 
out. “Ride the skies on your own magnificent and 
loyal steed!” 
The merchant’s name is Horace Wainright and 
he is, in fact, selling the egg of a large flying 
beast, but it isn’t a griffon . It’s a peryton.
Horace can be encountered in a rural town 
or village, or as a traveling merchant in a 
wilderness setting. He recently came upon the 
egg after a band of adventurers raided a clutch 
of peryton nests a few miles away. One egg 
escaped being pulverized and Horace seized 
the opportunity to make some coin. He may or 
may not be aware of the egg’s true parentage, 
depending on the DM’s wishes.
Horace will begin his bargaining at 500g, but 
can be easily talked down to a more affordable 
price of the DM’s choosing. He will extol 
the virtues of griffons as mounts for noble 
adventurers, such as the party before him, and 
scoff at any rumors of the difficulties of training 
the dangerous beasts the party may have 
heard— while reducing his asking price as much 
as necessary to turn his find into cash.
A successful DC 15 Intelligence (Nature) 
check of the egg can reveal its viability, but 
that it is not going to hatch imminently— 
perhaps in the next few days. For the purposes 
of the adventure, griffon and peryton eggs are 
indistinguishable.
If the party strikes a bargain with Horace, they 
can be on their way with their purchase, only to 
discover its true nature during their travels in 
the next day or two (DM’s discretion). If Horace 
can’t persuade the party to buy his discovery, 
they can come upon his demise (or aid in his 
rescue) on the road at some point in the future.
For their part, one (or more) of the perytons 
was away from the nests on a hunting excursion 
when the devastation happened. Since then, 
they have been hunting for the perpetrators, but 
happen to catch the smell of their egg and aim to 
take back what is theirs…
Peryton
Medium monstrosity, chaotic evil (MM page 251)
Armor Class 13 (natural armor)
Hit Points 33 (6d8 + 6)
Speed 20 ft., fly 60 ft.
 STR DEX CON INT WIS CHA
 16 (+3) 12 (+1) 13 (+1) 9 (-1) 12 (+1) 10 (+0)
Skills Perception +5
Damage Resistances bludgeoning, piercing, and slashing from non-
magical attacks
Senses passive Perception 15
Challenge 2 (450 XP)
Dive Attack. If the peryton is flying and dives at least 30 feet straight 
toward a target and then hits with a melee weapon attack, the attack 
deals an extra 9 (2d8) damage to the target.
Flyby. The peryton doesn’t provoke attacks of opportunity when it 
flies out of an enemy’s reach.
Keen Sight and Smell. The peryton has advantage on Wisdom 
(Perception) checks that rely on sight or smell.
Actions
Multiattack. The peryton makes one gore attack and one talon attack.
Gore. Melee Weapon Attack: +5 to hit, reach 5 ft., one target.                  
Hit: 7 (1d8 + 3) piercing damage.
Talons. Melee Weapon Attack: +5 to hit, reach 5 ft., one target.                 
Hit: 8 (2d4 + 3) piercing damage.
a Lternat Ives :
Multiple 
perytons can 
be used to 
challenge a 
higher level 
party. They may 
also be under 
the influence of 
an evil wizard 
or a coven of 
hags if the 
DM desires a 
particularly 
difficult 
encounter.
Horace could easily become a recurring 
character if the party buys the egg, or if they 
manage to rescue him from the peryton attack 
on the road later.

--- PAGE 6 ---

6  •  Can We Keep Him?
Feed  m e , s eymore !
e nv Ironment : WILderness  
Party  Leve L as  Presented : 4-6
c an  Be  ada Pted  to  Party  Leve Ls : a ny
The woods seem particularly fresh and alive as 
you pass through the verdant foliage and beams 
of sunlight pierce the canopy in many places, 
creating a virtual shower of warm rays.
Suddenly, in front of you a fluffy puppy bounces 
out from under a bush with a playful bark and 
wagging tail.
The puppy is actually an unfortunate human 
druid (MM page 346), named Seymore Tallfellow, 
who failed his saving throws and has been 
charmed by a black rose bush (details on the 
next page). The bush instructed him to lure more 
creatures to its clutches and, upon noticing the 
party trudging through the forest, he decided 
the best way to attract their attention without 
arousing suspicion was to take the form of an 
adorable puppy.
Seymore will jump and bark, attempting to 
gain the adventurers’ interest and get them to 
chase or follow him to where the bush resides, 
several yards away from the path or road that 
the party had been following. Once at least two 
party members are in range of its vines, the 
black rose bush will attack.
Seymore will try to passively aid the bush in 
combat (perhaps casting entangle or some other 
helpful spells), but will not engage the party 
directly as the bush knows it may lose control 
over him if it commands Seymore to do so. If 
the party manages to break the bush’s hold 
over Seymore by using dispel magic or a similar 
effect, he will quickly apologize and try to flee 
in fear, even if they are engaged in combat with 
the bush.
Any party members who succumb to the 
bush’s charm ability are instructed to drop their 
weapons and sit calmly next to the dangerous 
plant. Charmed players can choose to encourage 
their fellow party members to stop fighting and 
join them if the DM wishes.  
If the bush is defeated, the charm on Seymore 
wears off and he will thank the party profusely 
for their aid and express his sorrow for his 
previous behavior while relaying the story of his 
unfortunate circumstances.
a Lternat Ives :
The black rose bush can be adapted for parties 
of many levels by adjusting its armor class, hit 
dice, damage, and save DC for its charming 
fragrance ability as suggested in the table below.
Bl Ack  Ros E Bush  l Ev El  Adjustm Ents
Party Level AC Hit points Damage Save DC CR
  1-3 13 68 (8d10 + 24) 4 (1d4 + 2)/2 (1d4) 13 2
  4-6  as statted in description
  7-9 17 153 (18d10 + 54) 12 (2d8 + 3)/7 (2d6) 16 8
  10+ 19 221 (26d10 + 78) 17 (3d8 + 4)/10 (4d4) 17 13
The DM may also choose to add other monsters, 
such as the shambling mounds (MM page 270) 
or otyughs (MM page 248) as suggested in the 
black rose bush’s description on the next page. 
These monsters are not charmed by the bush, 
but rather willing accomplices in gathering food.
The black rose bush may be a guardian or 
pet for some other sinister force within the 
woods, such as a morally twisted druid or evil 
fey creature. Seymore can be useful as a quest 
giver, or a method to impart some important 
information to the players for a future adventure.

--- PAGE 7 ---

A Collection of Short Encounters for D&D 5e Characters of All Levels  •  7
BLack  r ose  Bush
Though incredibly rare, the black rose bush 
has nonetheless been the subject of tales of 
horror from any fortunate enough to escape its 
thorny grasp. Entire forest groves have been 
burnt to ash just from the rumor of one of these 
intelligent, carnivorous plants living within.
Beguiling Aroma. The pungent fragrance of 
the black rose bush has a potent persuasive 
effect on creatures of nearly all types. Only 
those with the strongest fortitudes— or those 
with elvish blood— are able to resist its 
charms. As elves can withstand the bush’s 
most effective tool for gathering food, it seeks 
to destroy them any chance it can. Some 
even whisper the bush’s origins lie in ancient 
history as an elven botanist’s experiment gone 
terribly wrong.
Extended Reach. Supplementing its more 
subtle weapon are a number of incredibly 
strong, prickly vines that can lash out many 
feet and snare unsuspecting prey from a 
distance. The vines then drag the hapless 
victim closer to the bush to allow the soothing 
fragrance to quiet its struggles, or simply 
squeeze the life out of it so the bush may feed.
Unlike most plants, whose roots gather 
nutrients from the soil, black rose bushes gain 
sustenance from the blood of their unfortunate 
victims as it seeps into 
the earth from the 
many puncture wounds 
inflicted by the bush’s sharp 
thorns. As result, scavengers, 
such as shambling mounds 
or otyughs, are sometimes 
attracted to the bush by the 
prospect of free meals. The 
bush will often take advantage 
of these creatures, using them 
for added protection from 
adversaries who wield fire or 
try to attack the bush from a 
distance.
BLack  r ose  Bush
Large plant, chaotic evil
Armor Class 15 (natural armor)
Hit Points 102 (12d10 + 36)
Speed 0 ft.
 STR DEX CON INT WIS CHA
 15 (+2) 14 (+2) 17 (+3) 12 (+1) 14 (+2) 17 (+3)
Skills Perception +5
Damage Resistances bludgeoning, piercing, and slashing from 
non-magical attacks
Senses passive Perception 15
Challenge 5 (1,800 XP)
Charming Fragrance. Any creature within 5 feet of the black rose 
bush must succeed on a DC 15 Constitution saving throw or be 
charmed by the black rose bush’s intoxicating aroma. Charmed 
creatures may attempt to make the save again at the end of each of 
their next two turns. If they fail both of those saving throws, they may 
not attempt another save for 24 hours, unless they are instructed by 
the black rose bush to do something directly against their nature (e.g. 
kill themselves). The black rose bush can convey simple commands, 
such as “Find me food,” or “Protect me,” by pheromones (smell) to 
targets it has charmed.  A successful save means the creature is 
immune to the effects of the fragrance for the next 24 hours.
Actions
Multiattack. The black rose bush makes four attacks with its vines.
Thorny Vines. Melee Weapon Attack: +6 to hit, reach 35 ft., one target. 
Hit: 7 (1d8 + 3) bludgeoning damage and 5 (2d4) piercing damage. The 
target is grappled (escape DC 13). Until the grapple ends, the target 
is restrained and has disadvantage on Strength checks and Strength 
saving throws and the bush can’t use the same vine on another 
target. Each turn the target is grappled, the vine deals 5 (2d4) 
piercing damage and pulls it 10 feet toward the bush’s body.

--- PAGE 8 ---

8  •  Can We Keep Him?
c ome  h ome , s PIke !
e nv Ironment : WILderness  (h ILLs  or  m ounta Ins )
Party  Leve L as  Presented : 3-5
c an  Be  ada Pted  to  Party  Leve Ls : a ny
Only a few clouds mar the bright blue sky as you 
march along your path this day, your tasks ahead 
and behind you occupying your thoughts to a 
great degree.
In the distance to your left, you hear a melancholy 
shout, “Spike!” Several seconds later, the call is 
repeated. “Come here, Spike!”
The speaker is a stone giant child (MM page 
156, modified stats listed below) who has 
wandered away from home, looking for his lost 
pet. If the party searches for the source of the 
sounds, they will locate and surprise the young 
giant as he is consumed by his need to find his 
companion.
If the adventurers ignore the calls, read the 
following:
The sounds gradually get closer until a few 
minutes later, a figure the size of a tall human 
stumbles onto the path [road] ahead of you. It 
turns to look at you with surprise, and then fear, 
on its face and you realize it is not a grown man, 
but rather a giant child. 
The boy’s name is Hurg and he has been well-
schooled in the atrocities an adventuring party is 
capable of committing, however, he is desperate to 
find Spike and will swallow his fear to ask for help.
“Please, I have to find, Spike. My parents will 
never let me have a pet again if I lose him.”
The party has a few choices at this point: they 
can help the boy find his pet; they can ignore him 
and move on; or they can attack the young giant. 
Any Wisdom (Insight) checks will reveal that 
the boy is telling the truth, though he doesn’t 
know what Spike is and can’t describe his pet 
well enough for any locate magics to work, “He’s 
big and spiky.” Allow your players mull over what 
that might mean.
If they choose to help him, have the players roll 
DC 8 Wisdom (Survival) checks and read the 
following:
After an hour or more of searching, you find a 
set of tracks that look promising and lead to 
an isolated cave, tucked along a hillside and 
shrouded with brush.
Spike is a basilisk (MM page 24) and not a male 
at all, but an expectant mother with a newly laid 
clutch of eggs. If she feels the least bit threatened, 
or thinks Hurg is in danger, she will attack to 
protect him or her eggs.
Though Spike still cares for Hurg, the boy 
will not be able to persuade Spike to leave her 
eggs and he will become despondent over the 
situation, begging the party for help.
If the party initially chooses to ignore the 
distraught giant, the DM can have them 
encounter Spike farther down the path, or save 
the encounter for another time.
If they choose to attack him, Spike will leap 
from hiding somewhere close by and defend the 
boy ferociously.
s tone  GIant  c h ILd
Medium giant, neutral
Armor Class 14 (natural armor)
Hit Points 39 (6d8 + 12)
Speed 30 ft.
 STR DEX CON INT WIS CHA
 16 (+3) 10 (+0) 14 (+2) 7 (-2) 8 (-1) 7 (-2)
Senses darkvision 60 ft., passive Perception 10
Challenge 1/2 (100 XP)
Actions
Greatclub. Melee Weapon Attack: +3 to hit, reach 5 ft., one target.                  
Hit: 7 (1d8 + 3) bludgeoning damage.
a Lternat Ives :
This encounter can be adjusted or expanded in 
a number of ways. Spike may have a mate, or 
even a full family, to help guard her eggs and 
provide a stiffer challenge for stronger parties. 
Hurg’s parents can show up after searching for 
him and, upon finding him in the company of 
a band of blood-thirsty adventurers, throw the 
players into a tense situation! Stone giants are 
neutral in alignment, so will the party attempt 
to negotiate a peace with them or go full murder 
hobo and try to slaughter the whole family? 
Gaining the enmity, or gratitude, of a band of 
giants could be a fascinating plot hook for future 
adventures.

--- PAGE 9 ---

A Collection of Short Encounters for D&D 5e Characters of All Levels  •  9
WILd  k In Gdom
e nv Ironment : WILderness , Pre Fera BLy  Forest
Party  Leve L as  Presented : a ny
c an  Be  ada Pted  to  Party  Leve Ls : a ny
Traveling through this forest has been pleasant 
for the most part, but you sense something in 
the air this evening you can only describe as 
anticipation or tenseness.
While keeping your eyes peeled for a place to 
make camp, you hear a plaintive, animal cry just 
before a tiny, dark-furred creature bounds from 
the brush into your path. Tentacles wave with 
nervous energy from its shoulders.
A moment later the air behind the little newcomer 
shimmers and another, larger creature, with 
canine features and long, pointed ears, pops into 
existence. The dog bears its teeth and growls at 
the smaller, seemingly helpless beast.
The tiny creature is a displacer beast (MM page 
81) cub (which experienced players will likely 
recognize) and the menacing canine is a blink 
dog (MM page 318). The players have stumbled 
onto an ancient conflict and must make a split-
second decision: help one or the other creature, 
or do nothing and see what transpires.
While the displacer beast is only a newborn, 
and many players’ first thoughts might be to 
keep it as a pet, the creatures are inherently 
lawful evil. The blink dog, on the other hand, 
is lawful good. Your party’s general disposition 
along the good or evil spectrum may come into 
serious question depending on what comes next.
If the players do nothing, or aid the blink dog, 
the cub’s parent(s) or pride will emerge from the 
forest, possibly already bloodied from combat 
before. The DM can determine an appropriate 
amount of adversaries to challenge their party.
If the party decides to help the cub, a pack 
of several blink dogs will arrive to join the 
fray. Again, it is left up to the DM to decide 
how difficult they wish the encounter to be by 
adjusting the number of dogs in the pack or 
by adding additional fey as suggested in the 
Alternatives section below.
d Is PLacer  Beast  c u B
Tiny monstrosity, lawful evil
Armor Class 11 (natural armor)
Hit Points 5 (2d4)
Speed 20 ft.
 STR DEX CON INT WIS CHA
 6 (-2) 10 (+0) 10 (+0) 4 (-3) 8 (-1) 7 (-2)
Senses darkvision 30 ft., passive Perception 10
Challenge 1/8 (25 XP)
Avoidance. If the displacer beast is subjected to an effect that allows 
it to make a saving throw to take only half damage, it instead takes no 
damage if it succeeds, and only half damage if it fails.
Displacement. The displacer beast projects a magical illusion that 
makes it appear to be standing near its actual location, causing attack 
rolls against it to have disadvantage. If it is hit by an attack, this effect is 
disrupted until the end of its next turn.
Actions
Multiattack. The displacer beast makes two attacks with its tentacles.
Tentacle. Melee Weapon Attack: +2 to hit, reach 5 ft., one target.                 
Hit: 1 (1d4 - 2) bludgeoning damage plus 2 (1d4) piercing damage.
a Lternat Ives :
This encounter offers many possibilities for 
further adventure. The blink dogs could be part 
of a Seelie Court (good fey) hunting party that 
has crossed into the Material Plane for a bit of 
sport. If the party has harmed or killed one or 
more of the dogs in order to protect the young 
displacer beast, the fey could become quite cross 
with the adventurers, leading to some interesting 
conundrums for the players— especially if their 
characters are of good alignment.
The displacer beasts 
could be from 
a breeding 
program run 
by a group 
of evil fey 
(Unseelie 
Court) who 
have plans 
to cause 
trouble in 
the Material 
Plane in the 
near future.